%),the desir product were form in good to excellent yield in CH3CN under 10- 20 bar of CO at 140° c within 15- 30 min and with carbon dioxide as the side- product(scheme 18). carbon monoxide is a cheap ga but it use requir safe and control environment and system because it is highly toxic to human. in addition, reaction in which carbon monoxide is us as a ga require suitable equipment to withstand the high pressur such as autoclav. the use of compound able to generate carbon monoxide in situ is a convenient, less dangerous and effective method to perform carbonylation reaction us less complex apparatus. in recent year, many synthes via carbonylation reaction, without the use of carbon monoxide, have been demonstrat. regard the synthesis of indol, zhou et al. discover that the combination of mo(CO) 6, pd(OAc) 2 and 1, 10- phen, wa suitable to afford 3H- indol from variously substitut nitrostyren[38]. CO is generat by heat 1 equiv of mo(CO) 6 at 100° c in DMF in a seal glass chamber(chamber 1). afterward, the ga pass into another seal glass chamber(chamber 2) contain the substrate, pd(OAc) 2(5 mol%), tm- phen(10 mol%) and DMF at the same temperature(scheme 19). ragaini and co- worker, in 2018, 2022 and 2023, develop three procedur for the synthesis of substitut indol from functionaliz nitro compound by us, in the first two cas phenyl formate as CO source[39, 40] and, in the third case formic acid[41]. all of three process allow the use of inexpensive reactor, in fact, the reaction were carri out in heavy borosilicate tub. in the first two work, pd(MeCN) 2Cl2 in conjunction with 1, 10- phen were us to catalyze the reaction. in addition, Et3N wa ad to the reaction mixture in order to favor the catalyst´ s reduction to pd(0). in the work publish in 2022, some substrat led to a non- selective reaction scheme 17: pd- catalyz reductive cyclization of 1, 2- bis(2- nitrophenyl) ethene and 1, 1- bis(2- nitrophenyl) ethene derivativ. scheme 20: synthesis of indol from substitut 2- nitrostyren(top) and ω- nitrostyren(bottom) via reductive cyclization with phenyl formate as the carbon monoxide source.(scheme 20). on the other hand, in the approach in which formic acid wa us, the catalyst system wa pd(acac) 2/ 1, 10- phen. also, in this case the addition of Et3N favor the reaction, moreover, Ac2O wa ad as additive(scheme 21). scheme 19: pd- catalyz synthesis of variously substitut 3H- indol from nitrostyren by us mo(CO) 6 as CO source. at the same time, wu and co- worker contribut to the introduction of two new synthes of n- aroylindole derivativ by mean of nickel catalysis. in 2021, they report a nickel- catalyz carbonylative cyclization of 2- nitroalkyn and aryl iodid with Co2(CO) 8 as the CO source. the reaction wa perform in the presence of ni(dme) Cl2(a nickel(II) chloride ethylene glycol dimethyl ether complex), dtbbpy(4, 4- ditert- butyl- 2, 2- dipyridyl), zn(0) and ZnI2 in DMF at 120° c[42](scheme 22). the nickel catalyst catalyz the oxidative addition and CO insertion on aryl iodide compound, while the zn/ ZnI2 couple catalyz the reduction of the nitro group with CO as reductant. the last step is an n- cyclization toward the 2- aroylindole formation with moderate to high isolat yield. in the other example, report one year later, the same kind of compound wa obtain from 2- nitroalkyn and arylboronic pinacol ester[43]. the reaction took place in the presence of ni(OTf) 2, dtbbpy, zn(0), and TMSCl(trimethylsilyl chloride) in DMF at 130° c(scheme 22). the ni(OTf) 2 catalyz the scheme 21: synthesis of indol from substitut 2- nitrostyren with formic acid as CO source. scheme 22: ni- catalyz carbonylative cyclization of 2- nitroalkyn and aryl iodid(top) and the ni- catalyz carbonylative cyclization of 2- nitroalkyn and arylboronic pinacol ester(bottom) report by wu and co- worker[42, 43]. transmetallation reaction with ar- bpin and subsequent insertion of CO. the reduction of the nitro group is catalyz by zn(0)/ TMSCl in the presence of CO. the reaction, again, end with an n- cyclization giv the n- aroylindol with fair to good isolat yield. the reaction mechanism are report in scheme 23. synthesis of indol by rh- catalyz carbonylation reaction synthesis of indol by rh- catalyz carbonylation reaction in the past, tang and co- worker demonstrat that vinyl propargylic ester could be employ as five- carbon atom build block in[5+ 2] cycloaddition with alkyn or alken by carbene intermediat. start from those result they envisag the benzannulation of heteroaryl propargylic ester favor by CO[44]. the process led to the desir result with some effort because a dearomatization, follow by aromatization, wa necessary to achieve the goal. with[rh(CO) 2Cl] 2 or[rh(COD) 2] BF4 as the catalyst under atmospheric pressure of CO(1 bar), good yield of the desir product were obtain(scheme 24). carbonylative functionalization of indol metal- catalyz cyclocarbonylative coupl reaction of indol to 6H- isoindolo[2, 1a] indol- 6- one scaffold carbonylative functionalization of indol metal- catalyz cyclocarbonylative coupl reaction of indol to 6H- isoindolo[2, 1a] indol- 6- one scaffold substitut 6H- isoindolo[2, 1a] indol- 6- on are important structural component of many naturally occur and pharmacologically active compound[45- 51]. they are also relevant intermediat in organic synthesis[52, 53]. therefore, the significance of 6H- isoindolo[2, 1a] indol- 6- on ha led to a long- stand interest in the development of efficient and versatile method for their synthesis. in 2016, four independent study report the first successful application of a metal- catalyz cyclocarbonylation in an efficient synthetic pathway toward 6H- isoindolo[2, 1a] indol- 6- on. in three of these, the product were obtain th