carbonylative synthesis and functionalization of indol carbonylative synthesis and functionalization of indol alex de salvo 1, 2, raffaella mancuso 1 and xiao- feng wu 2, 3 review review address: address: 1 laboratory of industrial and synthetic organic chemistry(LISOC), department of chemistry and chemical technology, university of calabria, via pietro bucci 12/ c, 87036 arcavacata di rende(CS), italy, 2 leibniz- institut für katalyse e. v., albert- einstein- str. 29a, 18059 rostock, germany and 3 dalian national laboratory for clean energy, dalian institute of chemical physic, chinese academy of scienc, 116023 liaon, china email: email: raffaella mancuso- raffaella. mancuso@ unical. it; xiao- feng wu xwu2020@ dicp. ac. cn correspond author keyword: keyword: carbonylation; functionalization; indole; metal catalyst; organometallic chemistry abstract abstract carbonylation process have become widely recogniz as a versatile, convenient, and low- cost method for the synthesis of highvalue compound. given the great importance of heterocyclic compound, the carbonylative approach ha become increasingly important for their synthesis. in this mini- review, as a class of benzo- fus nitrogen- contain heterocyclic compound, we summariz and discus the recent achievement on the synthesis and functionalization of indole derivativ via carbonylative approach. introduction introduction indole is a heterocyclic compound consist of a benzene ring fus with a pyrrole ring. it wa discover in 1866 by baeyer and knop as the basic structure of the natural dye indigo, from which it is deriv[1]. the indole ring is a common structural element found in both natural and synthetic product, includ pharmaceutical, agrochemical, dy, herbicid, and material[2- 4]. the indole core is particularly noteworthy for it role in various biologically active compound and drug, such as antihypertensiv, anti- inflammatory, antimycotic, antimigrant, anticancer drug, and many other[5- 7]. the first synthesis of indole ha been introduc by fischer in 1883 and beilstein j. org. chem. 2024, 20, 973- 1000. http:// doi. org/ 10. 3762/ bjoc. 20. 87 receiv: 21 february 2024 accept: 19 april 2024 publish: 30 april 2024 this article is part of the thematic issue" multicomponent reaction IV". associate editor: t. j. j. müller© 2024 de salvo et al.; licensee beilstein- institut. license and term: see end of document. open access involv it synthesis from phenylhydrazine and an aldehyde or ketone us an appropriate acid catalyst[8]. in the follow year, new process were develop for the synthesis of indole such as the castro, bischler, and larock synthesis etc.[2, 9, 10]. carbonylation reaction represent a powerful method for the introduction of a C1 build block into organic substrat us carbon monoxide, it surrogat, or compound able to act as carbon monoxide sourc[11]. in recent year, many group have us the carbonylation approach for the synthesis and functionalization of indol, which is what we are discus in this mini- review. review review carbonylative synthesis of indol synthesis of indol by pd(0)- catalyz carbonylation reaction of halide compound carbonylative synthesis of indol synthesis of indol by pd(0)- catalyz carbonylation reaction of halide compound process us organic halid as their start material involv the oxidative addition of pd(0) to c- x bond to give ar- PdII- x complex are important for the synthesis of heterocyclic and non- heterocyclic compound. in 2009, arthuis and co- worker develop a new process for the synthesis of 2- aroylindol and 2- heteroaroylindol by a one- pot palladium- catalyz domino reaction that involv an initial c, n- coupl follow by carbon monoxide insertion, and suzuki- miyaura coupl reaction, from 2gemdibromovinylaniline[12]. in the presence of pd(PPh3) 4(5 mol%) as catalyst, 5 equivalent of base(K2CO3), an aryl- or heteroarylboronic ester(1. 1 equivalent), CO(12 bar), in dioxane at 100° c after 16 h the indole derivativ were isolat with good yield(scheme 1). instead, in the senadi et al. approach, 1-(3- amino)- 1H- indol- 2yl)- 1- keton were obtain through a pd(0)- catalyz cascade process consist of isonitrile insertion as carbon monoxide surrogate and a c- h cross- coupl[13]. the reaction took place in the presence of K2CO3(3 equiv) as base, an isonitrile(1. 2 equiv), and pd(OAc) 2(10 mol%) which in situ undergo a reduction to pd(0)(scheme 2). another example wa publish by wu' s group, who carri out the synthesis of 1-(1H- indol- 1- yl)- 2- arylethan- 1- one derivativ by promot the formation of amid from 2- alkynylanilin by us TFBen(benzene- 1, 3, 5- triyl triformate) as a CO source, pd(OAc) 2, DPEPhos(bis[(2- diphenylphosphino) phenyl] ether), and DIPEA(n, n- diisopropylethylamine) in MeCN. after 24 h, scheme 1: pd(0)- catalyz domino c, n- coupl/ carbonylation/ suzuki coupl reaction for the synthesis of 2- aroylindol and 2- heteroaroylindol. scheme 2: pd(0)- catalyz single isonitrile insertion: synthesis of 1-(3- amino)- 1H- indol- 2- yl)- 1- keton. pd(OAc) 2 and AlCl3 were ad to promote a selective cyclization reaction[14]. the reaction mechanism proceed with an initial reduction of pd(II) to pd(0) follow by oxidative addition on the ArCH2- cl bond to form the ArCH2- PdII- cl complex. then, insertion of CO, from TFBen, tak place follow by nucleophilic displacement and reductive elimination. the obtain compound undergo selective cyclization to the indole derivative in the presence of pd(OAc) 2 and AlCl3. a variety of indole derivativ were synthetiz in good isolat yield(scheme 3). scheme 3: pd(0)- catalyz ga- free carbonylation of 2- alkynylanilin to 1-(1H- indol- 1- yl)- 2- arylethan- 1- on. synthesis of indol by pd(II)- catalyz carbonylation reaction synthesis of indol by pd(II)- catalyz carbonylation reaction oxidative carbonylation reaction, as well as all other typ of carbonylation reaction, represent a simple and