on to 5 mol% of pd(OAc) 2, 3 equiv of K2CO3 and 2. 5 equiv of I2 were ad. the reaction were carri out by us both aliphatic alcohol and phenol(scheme 37) and good isolat yield were achiev. scheme 35: pd- catalyz c- h and n- h alkoxycarbonylation of indole derivativ to indole- 3- carboxylat and indole n- carboxylat report by lei et al.[66].<!-- image--> scheme 37: pd- catalyz c- h alkoxycarbonylation of indole derivativ with alcohol and phenol to indole- 3- carboxylat.<!-- image--><!-- image--> in 2021, peng and co- worker publish a more environmentally friendly alkoxycarbonylation approach with phenol, from n- methylindol, to synthesize n- methylindole- 3- carboxylat without us noble metal catalyst[69]. the process wa catalyz by visible light in the presence of mo(CO) 6(1 equiv) as CO source, I2(2 equiv), and K2CO3(3 equiv) at 120° c in an inert reaction environment(N2) and in DMSO as solvent(scheme 38). functionalization through direct c- h carbonylation functionalization through direct c- h carbonylation the direct functionalization of indol via c- c bond formation ha receiv great interest due to the broad application of functionaliz indole derivativ. in this context, many group develop different rout to 3- substitut indol. in this minireview, we just show the carbonylative approach. xing and co- worker present a controllable and regioselective synthesis of indol- 3α- ketoamid and indol- 3- amid via the direct double- and monoaminocarbonylation of indole derivativ by us secondary amin[70]. they us pd(dppf) Cl2 as catalyst system. the indol- 3α- ketoamid were synthesiz by ad dppf as ligand, CuI as co- catalyst, and LiCl as additive under 40 bar of CO. to make the process regioselective toward indol- 3- amid, dppf as ligand, the base(K2CO3), and I2 were ad, and the reaction run under a low pressure of CO(1 bar), in addition to the catalyst. both process took place well in THF(scheme 39). in 2013, the li' s group and zeng and alper develop two different method for carry out a direct carbonylation of indol with alkyn. li' s group report the direct sonogashira carbonylation coupl reaction of indol and alkyn catalyz by pd/ CuI in the presence of iodine as oxidant[71]. the catalyst system wa pd(OAc) 2/ CuI, in addition, a base(K2CO3) wa ad in DMF as solvent. perform the reaction at 90° c for 24 hour led to 38 product with isolat yield up to 94%(scheme 40). instead, zeng and alper present a new regioselective and chemoselective method for the direct coupl of indol/ CO/ alkyn(alkynylcarboxylat) toward linear α, β- unsaturat keton[72]. the reaction occur in the presence of pd(CH3CN) 4(BF4) 2/ xantpho as catalyst system under 20. 7 bar of CO at 105° c in THF. after 15 h, each reaction led selectively to the desir product(scheme 40). more recently, zhao and co- worker publish a novel synthesis of indole- 3- yl aryl keton by a pd- catalyz direct carbonylation of the correspond indol with boronic acid[73]. the best catalyst wa pd(OAc) 2 which catalyz the reaction well in scheme 40: the direct sonogashira carbonylation coupl reaction of indol and alkyn via pd/ CuI catalysis report by li et al.[71](top). the pd- catalyz regio- and chemoselective direct coupl of indol/ CO/ alkynyl carboxylat develop by zeng and alper[72](bottom).<!-- image--> the presence of a base, such as KOH, in toluene as solvent and by ad pyridine and CsF as additiv. by this route the product were obtain under mild reaction condition apply low pressure of CO, temperature of 80° c for 12 h. a stoichiometric amount of I2 wa necessary to restore the catalyst that underwent a possible reduction(scheme 41). another interest method toward indole- 3- yl aryl keton wa report by zhang et al. consider the ability of the aryldiazonium salt to act as aryl radical source, in presence of the suitable metal catalyst or tak advantage of photocatalysis, they decid to perform a direct carbonylation of indol with that kind of chemical[74]. the reaction wa cheap because it took place by irradiation with green light(5 w) in the presence of eosin y as photocatalyst, under 70 bar of CO, in CH3CN at room temperature(scheme 41). in 2018, wu et al. publish two paper about the functionalization of indol. in the first one, bas on the known bioactivity display by bis(indolyl) methane(BIM) compound, they report the pd- catalyz carbonylative synthesis of the target compound from aryl iodid and n- substitut and NH- free indol in the presence of TFBen as the CO source[75]. a wide range of bis(indolyl) methane compound were isolat in moderate and excellent yield after 24 hour in DMSO, Et3N and formic acid as additiv and, pd(PPh3) 2Cl2/ p(o- tolyl) 3 as catalyst system. the reaction condition and some important BIMs synthesiz are shown in scheme 42. scheme 41: synthesis of indole- 3- yl aryl keton report by zhao and co- worker[73](path a) and zhang and co- worker[74](path b).<!-- image--> scheme 42: pd- catalyz carbonylative synthesis of BIMs from aryl iodid and n- substitut and NH- free indol with of TFBen as CO source.<!-- image--> in the second paper they us hexaketocyclohexane octahydrate as the CO source again. this cyclic hexaketone is a nontoxic stable solid and therefore, it is simple and safe to use unlike of carbon monoxide. it wa us as reagent to obtain indolα- ketoester by th