the reaction mechanism proceed with an initial reduction of pd(II) to pd(0) follow by oxidative addition on the ArCH 2- cl bond to form the ArCH 2- pd II- cl complex. then, insertion of CO, from TFBen, tak place follow by nucleophilic displacement and reductive elimination. the obtain compound undergo selective cyclization to the indole derivative in the presence of pd(OAc) 2 and AlCl 3. a variety of indole derivativ were synthetiz in good isolat yield(scheme 3). scheme 3: pd(0)- catalyz ga- free carbonylation of 2- alkynylanilin to 1-(1 h- indol- 1- yl)- 2- arylethan- 1- on.<!-- image--> synthesis of indol by pd(II)- catalyz carbonylation reaction synthesis of indol by pd(II)- catalyz carbonylation reaction oxidative carbonylation reaction, as well as all other typ of carbonylation reaction, represent a simple and more environmentally friendly method for the synthesis of important organic compound. since the development of the wacker process, the study of oxidative carbonylation ha made enormous progress by investigat even the possibility of catalyz carbonylative heterocyclization reaction by exploit the electrophilic character of pd(II) specy. start from substrat bear a triple bond and a nucleophile in the appropriate position, a versatile process of heterocyclization can be initiat, result in indole derivativ with important property. gabriele et al., in two different period, report two paradigmatic exampl for indole synthes. in 2010, they develop the synthesis of 1-(alkoxyarylmethyl) indole- 3- carboxylic ester from 2- alkynylaniline imin by us PdI 2/ KI as catalyst system and oxygen as oxidant[15]. in particular, the reaction wa carri out us 2 mol% of PdI 2, 20 mol% of KI and 40 bar of a 4: 1 mixture of CO- air, in methanol or ethanol in the presence of an ortho- ester(1: 3 mixture) as solvent to prevent hydrolysis of the substrate. after 15 hour at 80° c the indol derivativ were isolat in good yield(scheme 4). scheme 4: pd(II)- catalyz heterocyclization/ alkoxycarbonylation of 2- alkynylaniline imin.<!-- image--> two year later, they perform, us the same catalytic and oxidative condition, another oxidative heterocyclization/ alkoxycarbonylation process for the synthesis of n- substitut indole- 3- carboxylic ester and n- h free indole- 3- carboxylic ester from n- substitut 2- alkynylanilin and 2- alkynylanilin bear a secondary amino group and an internal triple bond[16]. in the same research group, it ha been demonstrat that with a terminal alkynyl group, the reactivity is completely different lead to the formation of dihydroindol- 2- one derivativ[17]. the process wa versatile and efficient toward the formation of n- substitut indole derivativ from n- substitut anilin. the direct PdI 2/ KI oxidative carbonylation of 2- alkynylanilin do not lead to the formation of indole- 3carboxylic ester but to the formation of acyclic carbamat. for this reason, they perform the reaction in the presence of trimethyl orthoformate to transform, in situ, the primary amino group into a secondary amino group with an easy- to- remove substituent thus perform a not direct synthesis process. inde, the desir n- h- free product wa obtain by acidic treatment of the reaction crude. in both cas, the target product were isolat in good yield(scheme 5). in 2014, shen and co- worker develop a selective synthesis for methyl 1- benzyl- 1 h- indole- 3- carboxylat and bis(1benzyl- 1 h- indol- 3- yl) methanon[18] start from the same kind of substrat us by gabriele' s group two year before. the first indole derivativ were obtain by catalyz the reaction with 5 mol% of pd(tfa) 2(palladium(II) trifluoroacetate) and 1. 5 equivalent of p- benzoquinone as oxidant in a 1: 5 DMSO/ MeOH solvent mixture at a temperature between 0° c and 15° c and, for a time between 48 and 120 hour depend on the substrate. in the second case the reaction wa catalyz under the same condition except for chang the solvent to iPrOH and the catalyst to[pd(tfa) 2 l](scheme 5). furthermore, gabriele and co- worker develop the oxidative carbonylation of 1-(2- aminoaryl)- 2- yn- 1- ol to quinoline- 3carboxylic ester. meanwhile, they also discover that by conduct the reaction under non- oxidative condition the reaction mechanism chang, lead to the formation of indol- 2acetic ester via the h- pd II- i specy form in situ[19]. the reaction wa perform in the presence of PdI 2 and KI(2 mol% and 20 mol%, respectively) in methanol under 90 bar of CO at 100° c for two hour(scheme 6). as already seen, triple bond can be activat by pd(II) catalyst toward the addition of nucleophil in the right position, lead to heterocyclization reaction. tak advantage of this possibility, in the della cá group, a carbonylative double cyclization process wa develop obtain 3, 4- dihydro- 1 h- furo[3, 4b] indol- 1- on from suitably functionaliz 2- alkynylanilin[20]. the reaction occur in the presence of PdI 2(1 mol%) as catalyst and KI(10 mol%) as co- catalyst in MeCN at 120° c for 24 h. at the end of the process the catalyst undergo reduction, therefore, rather us only CO, a mixture of CO- air(12: 48 bar) wa us with the aim of oxidiz the pd(0) specy in order to restore the catalyst able to catalyze the process again. the reaction mechanism proceed with an initial interaction between the pd(II) specy and the triple bond that promot an intramolecular nucleophilic attack of the amino group giv a indolcyclopalladium specy. this is follow by CO insertion and intramolecular nucleophilic displacement by the hydroxy group to give the indole- pd II- cycle derivate. the reaction end with a reductive elimination and the generat pd(0) specy get oxidat by the oxygen to the active pd(II) specy(scheme 7).<!-- image--> scheme 5: pd(II)- catalyz heterocyclization/ alkoxycarbonylation of