obtain by us PdCl2(10 mol%) as catalyst and cu(TFA) 2· H2O(30 mol%) as co- catalyst. at the end of the process the catalyst underwent reduction, and therefore, in order to make the process catalytic, the reaction wa perform in the presence of O2. furthermore, the addition of 1 equivalent of PivOH led to an improv isolat yield. a mixture of dioxane/ DMA wa the best solution to carry out the reaction that ha been perform at 100° c for 48 h(scheme 30). on the other hand, chandrasekhar and sankararaman report the same process start from secondary amin instead of tertiary amin[61]. in this case, the catalyst system wa pd(OCOCF3) 2(10 mol%) and the oxidant cu(OAc) 2(2 equiv) and oxygen. the reaction wa carri out in toluene at 80° c for 24 h and, in term of ga pressure, took place under mild condition comparable to the on report by xu et al.(scheme 31). chandrasekhar and sankararaman also test primary amin under the condition outlin in scheme 31, however, the reaction gave the annulat product(as the secondary amin) and the correspond urea derivativ as byproduct. in the middle of the same year, wu' s group succeed in us n-(2- bromobenzoyl) indol in the reaction with alcohol and anilin to achieve a pd- catalyz diasteroselective carbonylative cyclodearomatization[62]. the synthesis proceed best when the reaction wa perform in the presence of 10 mol% of pd(OAc) 2 and dppp as catalyst system, Na2WO4· 2H2O(1 or 2 equiv) as base and an excess of nucleophile(alcohol or anilin) in toluene as reaction solvent under 5 bar of CO at 100° c. also, 20 mol% of LiBr were ad as additive when alcohol were us as the nucleophil(scheme 32). about three year later, the same group develop a simple and efficient method to access CO- link heterocyclic scaffold by a pd- catalyz carbonylative cyclization of alkene- indole derivativ with 2- alkynylanilin and 2- alkynylphenol, in the presence of TFBen as CO source[63]. the reaction proceed to heterocyclic compound in the presence of 10 mol% of pd(TFA) 2 and dppb(1, 4- bis(diphenylphosphino) butane), 3 equivalent of TFBen, 2 equivalent of Na2CO3 in dioxane at 100° c. the product were obtain in very good isolat yield(scheme 33). the propos mechanism, shown in scheme 34, suggest that the process proceed through a pd(0) catalysis proceed through first an intramolecular heck reaction, follow by CO insertion, n- cyclization(anilin) or o- cyclization(phenol) and final reductive elimination. carbonylative functionalization of indol to 3- substitut indol functionalization through direct c- h alkoxycarbonylation carbonylative functionalization of indol to 3- substitut indol functionalization through direct c- h alkoxycarbonylation the transition- metal- catalyz carbonylation of aryl halid, triflat, and tosylat with carbon monoxide and an alcohol wa first pioneer by heck and co- worker in 1974[64, 65]. scheme 30: synthesis of indolo[1, 2a] quinoxalinone derivativ through pd/ cu co- catalyz carbonylative cyclization from o- indolylN, n- dimethylarylamin. scheme 31: pd- catalyz carbonylative cyclization of o- indolylarylamin and n- monosubstitut o- indolylarylamin report by chandrasekhar and sankararaman[61]. scheme 32: pd- catalyz diasteroselective carbonylative cyclodearomatization of n-(2- bromobenzoyl) indol with anilin(top) and alcohol(bottom). since then, this method ha been well- develop and is consider one of the most straightforward way to access carboxylic ester. in later year, other compound were studi as substrat for alkoxycarbonylation process. in fact, aromatic c- h functionalization have been increasingly us for the synthesis of organic build block and pharmaceutical compound. in this context, given the importance of indol, in 2011, the group by lei and li independently report the c- h alkoxycarbonylation of indole derivativ[66, 67]. in addition, lei and co- worker also report the n- h alkoxycarbonylation[66]. both process took place in a schlenk tube load with 2. 5 mol% of pd(PPh3) 2Cl2 as catalyst, 10 mol% of cu(OAc) 2 as co- catalyst, 5 mol% of PPh3 as ligand under a mixture of CO/ air 7: 1 in toluene/ DMSO as solvent at 100° c for 36 h. the desir product were isolat in yield up to 98%(scheme 35). unlike what we have just written, li' s group perform the reaction by a rh- catalysis us[rh(COD) cl] 2 and re- oxidiz it with K2S2O8. the reaction led to the product in toluene after 24- 48 hour at 110° c under 1 bar of CO(scheme 36). another example to obtain indole- 3- carboxylat, wa again report by li et al.[68]. the process occur under mild condition(such as the approach seen above) under 1 bar of CO, in DMF or CH3CN, at 80- 100° c for 24- 48 h. in addition to 5 mol% of pd(OAc) 2, 3 equiv of K2CO3 and 2. 5 equiv of I2 were ad. the reaction were carri out by us both aliphatic alcohol and phenol(scheme 37) and good isolat yield were achiev. scheme 35: pd- catalyz c- h and n- h alkoxycarbonylation of indole derivativ to indole- 3- carboxylat and indoleN- carboxylat report by lei et al.[66]. scheme 37: pd- catalyz c- h alkoxycarbonylation of indole derivativ with alcohol and phenol to indole- 3- carboxylat. in 2021, peng and co- worker publish a more environmentally friendly alkoxycarbonylation approach with phenol, from nmethylindol, to synthesize n- methylndole- 3- carboxylat without us of noble metal catalyst[69]. the process wa catalyz by visib