review article review article indole synthesis: a review and medicinal us of their derivativ indole synthesis: a review and medicinal us of their derivativ aditi shelke, shritej varhadi, dr. lokhande r. p., mahadik jay, dhamane yash samarth institute of pharmacy, belhe. ARTICLE INFO ARTICLE INFO publish: 26 may 2025 keyword: indol, ionic liquid, microwave irradiation, nanoparticl, heterocyclic compound, AntiTubercular DOI: 10. 5281/ zenodo. 15517986 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION the presence of a phenylthio(- SPh) group at the third position of the indole ring distinguish 3phenylthioindole, an organic molecule that is a member of the family of indole derivativ. because it confer distinct chemical and biological characteristic, this structural alteration is important in synthetic, material, and medicinal correspond author: aditi shelke address: samarth institute of pharmacy, belhe. email: aditishelke003@ gmail. com relevant conflict of interest/ financial disclosur: the author declare that the research wa conduct in the absence of any commercial or financial relationship that could be constru as a potential conflict of interest. ABSTRACT ABSTRACT a large variety of bioactive natural product and molecul with significant therapeutic value include indol, a functional group that is widely distribut in nature. the development of new techniqu for the synthesis of indole core and site- specific indol ha consequently increas exponentially. greener techniqu that employ solid acid catalyst, ionic liquid, water as a solvent, microwave irradiation, and solvent- free nanoparticl are replac conventional method for the synthesis of indol. additionally, the substitut indol have a wide range of us. 3- the sulfur- substitut indole derivative phenylthioindole ha attract attention because of it possible biological activity and use as a synthesis intermediary in medicinal chemistry. by nucleophilically substitut thiophenol for 3- haloindole under basic circumstanc, this work describ an effective synthesis pathway for 3- phenylthioindole. in polar aprotic solvent, the reaction proceed smoothly and produc the requir thioether with excellent purity and good yield. spectroscopic method such as NMR, IR, and mass spectrometry were us to characterize the produc chemical. this technique provid a useful way to create sulfur- functionaliz indole framework for additional research in medicinal chemistry. chemistry. organic synthesis scientist have long been influenc by the indole alkaloid, which include vincristine and lysergic acid. in recent year, there ha been a surge in interest in creat novel techniqu for indole synthesis. these novel techniqu have been dispers across the organic chemistry literature. we offer a categorization scheme for all indole synthes in this evaluation. we are aware that the topic ha been on organic INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES[ISSN: 0975- 4725; CODEN(USA): IJPS00] journal homepage: http:// www. ijpsjournal. com chemist' thought for over a century as we get closer to classify the method for indole production. the synthesis of indole ha been review several tim. one we knew, too, that there wa much more to say than we have. the reduction of oxindol to indol and the conversion of indolin to indol have only been slightly discus. the vast body of research on alter already- exist indol ha not been discus. our goal ha alway been to be illustrative rather than all- inclusive. however, it is clear that any indole synthesis need to align with one of the nine strategic approach list above. the global research effort is coordinat and unifi by the network of scientific citation. we anticipate broad acceptance of the indole synthes categorization system that we have propos. it will be simple to learn about the background and current state of that indole manufactur technique as author will be able to classify their techniqu as they create new approach to the indole nucleus. we hope that effort will then be focus on the very real obstacl that still ne to be solv, in addition to prevent duplication. notably, each of these nine techniqu report significant new contribution in 2009, the most recent year we have discus. at the conclusion of each segment, we have indicat them. given their diverse range of biological function, indole derivativ have gain notable attention in recent year. the anticonvulsant medication design is predicat on the idea that at least one phenyl or comparable aromatic group near a two- electron donor atom is necessary for the activity in maximum electroshock seizure(MES) assessment. pentylenetetrazole(PTZ) assessment requir an alkyl group near a two- electron donor atom in order to be active. several strategy for the development of novel antipsychotic have start to provide additional tool for reliev the symptom of schizophrenia. in recent year, the pharmaceutical industry and academia have shown significant interest in the development of novel antipsychotic characteriz by interaction with less obvious receptor such as metabotropic glutamate receptor and tachykinin receptor.[stefania b. et al; 2008] of the several variety of epilepsy, lennox- gastaut syndrome(LGS) is a childhood- onset epilepsy that caus a variety of seizur that hinder young children' s intellectual development. treatment resistance is frequently the primary issue with LGS seizur. rufinamide, an antiepileptic medication with a 1, 2, 3- triazole ring, is one of the first- line orphan medication us to treat individual with LGS seizur. padmaja. fig. 1 an illustration of the innovative gre