en the n 7 i bond is cleav with simultaneous electrocyclic ring closure. the reaction end with isomerization of 3 h- indole to the target indole.<!-- image--> the cyclization of analogous a- iodo- enamin is induc by the action of pd(dba) 3. 190 palladium- catalyz cyclization of alkyl ketone n- arylimin lead to indol via the oxidative formation of the c(3) 7 c(3a) bond with molecular oxygen as the only oxidant. 191 a new synthesis of indole derivativ is bas on intramolecular dehydrative coupl of tertiary amin with keton catalyz by the bu t OK- DMF superbasic system(scheme 133). 192 a similar system for cyclization generat the c 7 n bond wa employ to prepare ester of n- substitut 1 h- indole- 3- carboxylic acid. 193<!-- image-->(a) bu t OK(1. 2 equiv.), DMF, 90 8 c; r 2= r 3 n= h: r 1= et(88%), ph(75%), 4- MeOC6H4(60%), 3, 5- Me2C6H3(65%), etc. similar result were also obtain with acyclic tertiary amin. probably, the reaction proceed via the formation of the r- aminoalkyl radical. the putative mechanism of this reaction is depict in scheme 134. carbamoyl radical a is generat upon deprotonation of DMF follow by single- electron transfer. radical a eliminat the hydrogen atom from the c(1) atom of substrate s and the r- amino- scheme 134<!-- image--> alkyl radical b thus form add to the carbonyl group; intermediate c detach a hydrogen atom from DMF. 3- hydroxyindoline intermediate d is form as the primary reaction product and radical a is recover. the final reaction product p is form upon dehydration of intermediate d. a new synthesis of 3- nitroindol 97, free from metal catalyst, bas on radical dehydrogenative cyclization of n- arylimin 96 induc by tert- butylnitrite includ the cascade cleavage of several c 7 h bond, nitration, cyclization and isomerization reaction. the method ha high compatibility with functional group and high selectivity(scheme 135, table 14). 194<!-- image--> it follow from table 14 that the reaction is tolerant to substituent of various natur, includ MeO, MeS, br and c(o) me. for example, the meta- substitut substrate regioselectively form indole 97b in 62% yield. substrat with electron- donat substituent also smoothly react to give indol 97c- e in moderate yield; the substrate with the electron- withdraw ac substituent behav in a similar way, with indole 97g be form in 63% yield. ject to the intramolecular SN2 nucleophilic attack, be convert to indoline intermediate b, which isomeriz to indole dur the workup of the reaction mixture or purification of the reaction product. 8. 2. c 7 nbond formation 8. 2. c 7 nbond formation most often, the c 7 n bond formation in the indole synthesis occur with the participation of anilin with an appropriate functional group in the ortho- position to the amino group. an example of such group is vinyl, which undergo the c 7 h amination follow by oxidation to give a pyrrole ring. efficient intramolecular c 7 h amination in n- tosyl2- alkenylanilin requir no transition metal- bas catalyst and us DDQ as the oxidant wa utiliz for the synthesis of a broad range of substitut indol(scheme 147). 206 the mechanism of this process includ the generation of a radical cation via single- electron transfer(SET) and migration step in the intermediate phenonium ion. apart from the absence of metal catalyst, benefit of the method include experimental simplicity and large diversity of suitable substrat. scheme 147 scheme 147 r 1= h, me, OMe, NO2, cl; r 2, r 3, r 4= h, alk, ar, het<!-- image--> the effect of substituent on the reaction efficiency wa studi for quite a number of substrat with r 3= h(table 15). n- tosylstyrylanilin(r 4= ar) are readily c 7 h- aminat yield the correspond indol in good to high yield irrespective of the nature of the aryl substituent, with only minor electronic and/ or steric require- ment(row 1- 10 in table 15). the z- isomer also react to give the product in a yield of 76%(row 2). alken with naphthyl and hetaryl substituent are also suitable for this reaction(row 11, 12). it is noteworthy that the presence of the aryl substituent with the electron- donat 4- MeO group(row 6) result in a mixture of 2- and 3- substitut indol in 5. 6: 1 ratio, which attest to occurrence of migration step in the carbocation intermediate. a highly regioselective synthesis of 3- arylindol wa perform start from b- aryl- substitut 2- styrylanilin, with FeCl3 and DDQ as the cheap and available catalyst and oxidant be us together(scheme 148); 207 meanwhile the employment of DDQ alone result in the formation of isomeric 2- arylindol. 163 attention is attract by the unusual joint effect of the component of this system on the 1, 2- migration of the aryl group. scheme 148 scheme 148<!-- image--> the result of synthesis of 3- arylindol by this strategy are summariz in table 16. it can be seen that electronwithdraw substituent in the aryl moiety(NO2 and CF3) completely suppress it migration from position 2 to 3. conversely, the electronic property of substituent in the indole benzene ring have virtually no effect on the regioselectivity of the reaction. two mechanism, ionic and radical on, were propos for the oxidative cyclization. 207 accord to the ionic mechanism(scheme 149), intermediate b is generat upon deprotonation of compound a, which is form initially upon fe III chelation by the sulfonamide and alkene group of the substrate. this is follow by intramolecular formation of the c 7 n bond and intermolecular formation of the c 7 o bond between intermediate b and fe III- activat DDQ, thus giv intermediate c. the latter is likely table 15. synthesis of indol involv mono- and disubstitut alken a(see scheme 147, r 4= h). 206| no.| r 1| r 2| r 3| yield(%)| no.| r 1| r 2| r 3