synthesis of indol: recent advanc synthesis of indol: recent advanc dmitry i. bugaenko, alexander v. karchava, marina a. yurovskaya dmitry i. bugaenko, alexander v. karchava, marina a. yurovskaya department of chemistry, lomonosov moscow state university leninskie gory 1, stroenie 3, 119991 moscow, russian federation publish data of the last 10 year concern the development of new and upgrad of known approach to indole synthesis are integrat and analyz. modern version of the classical synthes such as the fischer synthesis, nenitzescu synthesis, ullmann reaction, leimgruber- batcho synthesis, reissert synthesis, bartoli reaction, madelung synthesis and cadogan- sundberg reaction are consider. the present new approach include transformation of heterocycl, synthesis from o- alkynylanilin, reductive cyclization of nitrobenzene derivativ, synthesis with the use of aryn and catalysis by n- heterocyclic carben. the final section summariz original method for the synthesis of indol other than those list above; they are classifi in term of the nature of the form bond(c 7 c, c 7 n). rarely us method bas on benzene ring construction in pyrrole derivativ are discus separately. the bibliography includ 246 referenc. content content| 1. introduction| 99||------------------------------------------------------|------|| 2. modern version of classical synthetic method| 101|| 3. transformation of other heterocycl| 116|| 4. synthes from o- alkynylanilin| 122|| 5. reductive cyclization of nitrobenzene derivativ| 133|| 6. synthesis with the use of aryn| 136|| 7. carbene catalysis| 138|| 8. miscellaneous synthes| 139|| 9. construction of the benzene ring| 155| 1. introduction 1. introduction indole is one of the most abundant heterocycl occur in natural product. some indole derivativ are widely known to play an important role in the vital activity of human and animal, namely, the amino acid tryptophan(1); the biogenic amin tryptamine(2) and serotonin(3); and the mammalian hormone melatonin responsible for psychiatric health(4). 1, 2 in addition, an indole moiety is encounter in many pharmaceutical and agrochemical agent such as the antidepressant drug indopan(5)(currently includ in the d. i. bugaenko. post- graduate student of the division of organic chemistry at the department of chemistry, MSU. e- mail: bugad357@ yandex. ru a. v. karchava. PhD in chemistry, assistant professor, senior researcher at the same division. e- mail: karchava@ org. chem. msu. ru m. a. yurovskaya. doctor of chemical scienc, professor, lead researcher at the same division. e- mail: yumar@ org. chem. msu. ru current research interest of the author: chemistry of heterocyclic compound, new synthetic method, non- catalytic method for c 7 c and c- heteroatom bond formation receiv 14 june 2018 translation: z. p. svitanko structur 1- 4 structur 1- 4<!-- image--> narcotic list), the nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drug indomethacin(6), the hypertensive drug dimecarbin(7), the antihistamine agent dimebon us to treat alzheimer' s disease(8), the antiviral agent arbidol(9) and indolylacetic acid, a plant growth stimulant(10). fus indole derivativ such as carbazole(11), indolo[3, 2b] carbazole(12) and triindole(13) 3 are us as the donor component in organic electronic devic(light- emit diod, organic transistor, solar battery, etc.). DOI: 10. 1070/ RCR4844<!-- image--> the diversity of useful property of molecul contain the indole structural moiety constantly stimulat development of method for their synthesis. in recent year, considerable effort of chemical community have been direct not only toward the development of new synthetic rout to indole, but also toward advancement of the known classical approach. the interest in the problem of indole synthesis is indicat by a large number of literature review, both broad and specializ, that appear in the last decade. the monograph of gribble 4 publish in 2016 address the synthesis and chemical property of indol rang from natural compound to pharmaceutical and includ literature data from the mid- 20th century up to recent tim, but mainly up to 2014. some general review cover publication up to 2011. 5- 11 most specializ review are devot to the application of particular method for indole ring formation, for example, to the use of isocyanat, 12 propargyl compound, 13 azid 14 and isonitril 15 or to particular indole structur. there are review consider the bartoli reaction, 16 vicarious nucleophilic substitution, 17 granberg tryptamine synthesis, 18 photochemical activation, 19 synthesis of fus indole derivativ 20 and indole dicarboxylic acid, 21 and indol as potential medicinal agent for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseas. 22 the most recent review that appear in the journal chemistry of heterocyclic compound in 2018 deal with modern catalytic method for indole synthesis. 23- 25 the absence of comprehensive review that would cover detail information on the method of indole synthesis of the last ten year, includ both modern version of classical method and new synthetic approach bas on modern achievement of organic chemistry stimulat us to write this review. the follow abbreviation are us: ACVA- 4, 4 0- azobis(4- cyanovaleric acid), BHT- 2, 6- ditert- butyl- 4- methylphenol, boc tert- butoxycarbonyl, structur 5- 13 structur 5- 13 bpy- 2, 2 0- bipyridine, cbz- benzyloxycarbonyl, CDK- cyclin- dependent kinase, 1, 4- CHD- cyclohexa- 1, 4- diene, cy- cyclohexyl, dba- dibenzylideneacetone, DBU- 1, 8- diazabicyclo[5. 4. 0] undec- 7- ene, DCE- 1, 2- dichloroethane, DDQ- 2, 3- dichloro- 5, 6- dicyano- 1, 4- benzoquinone, DFT- density functional theory, DMAP- 4- dimethylaminopyri