es from the nitro group of the initial nitrostilbene rather than from triethyl phosphite. 88 the possible formation pathway of indol and n- ethoxyindol from label nitrostilbene 53 are shown in scheme 54. all of the propos mechanism start with deoxygenation of the nitro derivative to 2- nitrosostilbene 56. the subsequent electrocyclization lead to the key intermediate 57, which is reduc by an additional amount of triethyl phosphite yield 2- arylindole 54. alternatively, nitrosostilbene 56 can be subject to further deoxygenation to give nitrene, which can be insert into the alkene C7- h bond of stilbene to give indole 55. it is assum that n- hydroxyindole 57 can be alkylat by triethyl phosphate generat in situ to give n- ethoxyindole 55. the other possible mechanistic detail include either the exchange of the hydroxy group in intermediate 57 with the ethoxy group to give non- label n- ethoxyindol 55 or the exchange of label ethoxy group in compound 55 to give non- label indole 55. since the experiment with oxygen- label nitrostilbene 53 afford label n- ethoxyindole, the mechanism can be depict as shown in scheme 55. the electrocyclization of 2- nitrosostilbene intermediate 56a(obtain from substrate 53a) to bicyclic compound 58a giv, after proton elimination, deprotonat n- hydroxyindole 59a, which then serv as the substrate for alkylation with triethyl phosphate obtain upon deoxygenation of the nitro group. this alkylation yield oxygen- label n- ethoxyindole. 3. transformation of other heterocycl 3. transformation of other heterocycl the strategy of transformation of one heterocycle into another is a potent and convenient mean for the construction of a large diversity of heterocyclic structur. 89 the low resonance energy of the furan ring determin the ease of ring transformation giv various carbo- and heterocycl. 90 of particular interest is ring transformation of easily accessible furan derivativ to indol. an enormous role in the development of study on the conversion of furan into indol belong to professor a. v. butin and his colleagu and follower. thus, the acid- catalyz one- pot synthesis of indol from o- aminobenzyl alcohol and furan ha been develop(scheme 56). 91 the method includ the in situ formation of aminobenzylfuran a and the subsequent ring transformation to afford indole 60 contain an ethyl ketone group in position 2. the method is scalable and tolerat a broad range of substrat and more functional group than the two- step method develop previously. 92 the presence of this functional group in the indole bicyclic moiety imply the possibility of further transformation of indole into 2, 3- and 1, 2- fus indole derivativ and into indol contain an a, b- unsaturat carbonyl moiety. the reduction of the carbonyl group of indole 60b(R1= h, R2= R3= ph) and the subsequent friedel- craft cyclization give rise to tetracyclic indole 61. the removal of the tosyl protect group of indole 60a(R1= h, R2= ph, R3= me) on treatment with sodium naphthalenide afford NH- indole 62, which react with 2, 3- dichloro- 5, 6- dicyano- 1, 4- benzoquinone(DDQ) to be scheme 54 convert to unsaturat ketone 63. alternatively, after the reaction with excess mg in methanol, the tosyl group in indole 60a is efficiently remov with simultaneous reduction of the carbonyl group to the hydroxy group. mesylation and the subsequent intramolecular alkylation of alcohol 64 giv dihydropyrroloindole 65, which is an important structural moiety of potential medicinal agent and natural product(scheme 57). 91 in addition, dihydropyrroloindol can be prepar by cobalt- catalyz intramolecular cyclization of 1-(but- 3- enyl)- 1H- indol. 93 recently, an unusual domino reaction ha been propos in which the same a- carbon atom of furan react, first, as a nucleophile and then as an electrophile. in the presence of acid, n- tosylfurfurylamine(66) react with 2-(tosylamino) benzyl alcohol giv rise to 2-(acylvinyl) indol 67a- n(scheme 58, table 6). 94 the reaction proceed as the friedel- craft alkylation of furan position 2 follow by acid- catalyz intramolecular attack by the ortho- amino group on the same atom. the process optimization is mainly relat to the choice of the acid. three acidic agent, namely, AcOH- HCl(method a), CF3CO2H(method b) and CuSO4· 5H2O(method c), were test with a broad range of substrat. method a result in the lowest yield of indol 67e, f, l. the use of primary benzyl alcohol gave a moderate yield of indole 67n. this can be attribut to lower stability of primary carbocation, which lead to oligomerization and, as a consequence, to resinification of the reaction mixture. the presence of electron- withdraw substituent in the benzene ring in the para- position relative to the amino group substantially decreas the yield of indol(product 67i, j). the replacement of the leav tosylamino group by the phthalimide group(furan 68) permit the synthesis of indol 69 of another type ow to the amphiphilic nature of the c(2) atom(scheme 59). indol of both typ(67a and 69a- c) are form upon the reaction of n- furfurylbenzamid(scheme 60). 94 the mechanism of formation of these indol is depict in scheme 61. the result can be interpret in term of the competitive protonation of intermediate 70 either at the amide group or at the furan c(5) atom. the protonation at the amide group(pathway a) substantially increas it nucleofugality(cation a), which lead to the formation of cation b upon amide elimination. the nucleophilic attack by the 2- tosylamino group on the furan c(2) atom follow scheme 58 scheme 58 is nucleophile, is electrophile scheme 71 of a halogen atom can interfere with the standard cat