n found that a sonogashira- coupl reaction wa compatible with the hydroamination/ amination sequence. 33 this overall transformation simplifi the preparation of indole 69, which could be acces directly from o- dihaloarene 67 by a sequential treatment with alkyne 25 and p- toluidine(68)(scheme 16). scheme 16 one- pot synthesis of indole 69 from o- dihaloarene 67(l= 1, 3bis(2, 4, 6- trimethylphenyl) imidazolium chloride).<!-- image--> a novel route to indole synthesis us o- dihaloaren and imin wa devis by barluenga. 36 in this methodology an a- deprotonation of the imine set the stage to allow two consecutive palladium- catalyz cross- coupl process. thus, under basic condition, imine 71 wa a- arylat with unsymmetric dihaloarene 70 to yield intermediate imine 72, which tautomeriz to the correspond enamine 73. a subsequent BuchwaldHartwig amination gave rise to 2, 3- disubstitut indole 74 in good yield(scheme 17). remarkably, the regioselectivity of the overall transformation could be control accord to the preference of the oxidative addition to the c- br- over the c- cl- bond. scheme 17 synthesis of indole 74 via palladium- catalyz imine a- arylation/ n- arylation sequence.<!-- image--> this reaction wa found to proce regioselectively and with the same efficiency us o- chloroaryl sulfonat, which could be prepar from readily available inexpensive phenol. 37 moreover, a convenient' on water' microwave- promot protocol of this transformation wa develop as well. 38 similarly, barluenga found that indol could be built in a modular three- component cascade reaction employ simple start material such as bromoalken, primary amin and o- dihaloaren. 36 in this manner, indole 79 wa efficiently prepar from b- bromostyrene(59), aniline(75) and 1, 2- dichlorobenzene(76)(scheme 18). the overall transformation consist of an alkenyl amination, an a- arylation of the imine and finally an intramolecular n- arylation, which were promot by a single palladium catalyst. the selectivity of this process is noteworthy, since the three different cross- coupl event took place consecutively and with complete chemoselectivity. scheme 18 palladium- catalyz three- component synthesis of indole 79.<!-- image--> jørgensen made use of well- establish cross- coupl protocol to develop an elegant indole synthesis from o- dihaloaren and allyl amin. 39 here, a catalytic system compris pd(OAc) 2 and dppf as ligand enabl the regioselective synthesis of indole 83 from haloarene 80 and allyl amine(81)(scheme 19). the sequence wa propos to start with an n- arylation. a heck- coupl on intermediate 82 and an isomerization led to the indole in a good yield. later, this protocol wa extend to the use of chloroaryl triflat and boc- protect allyl amin. 40 scheme 19 synthesis of indole 83 from o- dihaloarene 80 and allyl amine(81).<!-- image--> indole synthes from b-(pseudo) halostyrene derivativ indole synthes from b-(pseudo) halostyrene derivativ a variety of indole derivativ were prepar by lauten and alper when us ortho- gem- dihalovinylanilin as substrat. 41 this palladium- catalyz reaction proceed through an intramolecular buchwald- hartwig- coupl giv rise to 2- haloindol. these valuable substrat could be further functionaliz through download by brown university on 05 december 2012 inter- or intramolecular c- c- coupling enabl the development of synthetically useful sequenc. for instance, florent recently develop a domino coupl reaction for the synthesis of 2- acylindole derivativ. 42 with this approach, indole 87 wa efficiently prepar from aniline 84 and arylboronic acid 85 when the reaction wa conduct under a high pressure of CO(scheme 20). this one- pot palladium- catalyz reaction occur via sequential c- n- bond formation, carbonylation and suzuki- coupl. a remarkable feature of this protocol resid in the use of a mild base. in this manner, sensitive moiety were well tolerat. scheme 20 synthesis of 2- acylindole 87 from dihalovinylaniline 84.<!-- image--> alternatively, willis report a relat palladium- catalyz indole synthesis employ o- halostyryl triflat 43 or halid 44 as start material. in this approach, two consecutive c- n- bond were form and allow for the introduction of functionality at the n- atom. for instance, indole 91 bear a bulky substituent at position 1, wa synthesiz from b- chlorostyrene 88 and tert- amylamine(89) in good yield. the low z: e ratio of the start material, in contrast with the obtain yield, indicat that both geometrical isomer could be convert into the desir indole, thereby, simplify the preparation of the start substrate(scheme 21). 44c scheme 21 synthesis of indole 91 from o- bromob- chlorostyrene 88.<!-- image--> indole synthes from o- propargylanilin indole synthes from o- propargylanilin as present above, the indole core could be easily assembl through metal- catalyz 5endo- dig cyclization from o- alkynylanilin. on the contrary, malacria studi the feasibility to prepare indole derivativ via a 5exo- dig cyclization us o- propargylanilin as substrat. 45 thus, a straightforward preparation of 3- alkoxyindole 95 wa achiev from aniline 92 us PtCl2| as catalyst. moreover, it wa found that an excess of simple acid such as SiO2 or p- toluenesulfonic acid promot the transformation as well(scheme 22). a mechanistic proposal for the brønst acid- promot reaction would start with an alkyne activation by the acid, which trigger the cyclization to generate ammonium intermediate 93. then, a facilitat 3- aza- cope rearrangement toward immonium specy 94 and subsequent aromatization likely afford the final product. scheme 22 brønst acid- promot cyclization of aniline 92.<!-- image--> in a relat report, chan describ a gold- catalyz 5exo- dig cyclization of tertiary propargyl alcohol. 46 in this