aniline derivativ which permit the preparation of 3- substitut indol wa report. for instance, cacchi report the preparation of 3- arylindole 13 from aniline 9 in a straightforward manner through a sequence compris an aminopalladation and reductive elimination. 12 the process would be initiat by an oxidative addition to aryl halid or arenediazonium salt such as 10(scheme 3). 13 coordination of the arylpalladium to the alkyne scheme 3 palladium- catalyz synthesis of 3- arylindole 13 us arenediazonium salt 10.<!-- image--> likely trigger a nucleophilic attack and a subsequent reductive elimination led to the correspond n- h- free indole. formation of 3- indolylpalladium intermediat similar to 11 ha been further exploit in order to introduce other valuable functionality. 14 in this sense, de lera report very recently the preparation of alkenyl- substitut indol combin a palladium- catalyz cyclization with an oxidative heck- coupl. 15 thus, in the presence of acrylate 15, aniline 14 could be convert into 3alkenylindole 18 in good yield under aerobic reaction condition us PdCl2 as catalyst(scheme 4). a plausible mechanism could start with an aminopalladation, follow by an alkene insertion to generate intermediate 17. indole 18 wa obtain after b- hydride elimination. the presence of O2 likely enabl the regeneration of an active PdX2 specy through oxidation. interestingly, b- hydride elimination in intermediat such as 17 could be avoid us LiBr, afford the correspond 3- alkylindol. 16 scheme 4 palladium- catalyz synthesis of 3- alkenylindole 18.<!-- image--> the replacement of an olefin by an aldehyde wa further develop by lu. 17 in this case, a cationic palladium catalyst allow an efficient preparation of 3- hydroxymethylindole 23 us tosyl- protect aniline 19 and ethylglyoxalate(20)(scheme 5). it is noteworthy that this protocol tolerat the presence of a c- cl bond, which could be further manipulat. this tandem reaction involv an addition of intermediate 21 to the carbonyl group to generate palladium alkoxide 22. a simple protonolysis afford indole 23 and regenerat a catalytically competent pd(II) specy, avoid the necessity of additional oxidant. scheme 5 palladium- catalyz synthesis of 3- hydroxymethylindole 23.<!-- image--> an important drawback of the above mention methodology li in the preparation of the o- alkynylanilin. a practical protocol which circumvent this inconvenience wa report by lu. 18 hence, 2, 3- disubstitut indole 29 wa prepar in excellent yield through a one- pot three- component domino sonogashira- cyclization- coupl sequence start from o- iodoaniline 24, which did not require the isolation of the o- alkynylaniline 27(scheme 6). scheme 6 palladium- catalyz multicomponent synthesis of 2, 3- disubstitut indole 29.<!-- image--> an interest cascade multicomponent synthesis of 2(aminomethyl) indol wa recently describ by ohno. 19 this protocol made use of n- protect o- alkynylanilin, aldehyd and secondary amin, which were selectively coupl us inexpensive CuBr as catalyst. in this manner, indole 35 wa prepar in very good yield(scheme 7). the reaction likely proceed via mannich- type coupl follow by a copper- catalyz cyclization. scheme 7 copper- catalyz multicomponent synthesis of 2-(aminomethyl) indole 35.<!-- image--> biologically relevant 3-(2- aminoethyl)- 1H- indol- 2- amine derivativ were prepar by wu through a copper- catalyz three- component reaction of o- alkynylanilin, sulfonyl azide and nitroalken(scheme 8). 20 hence, boc- protect o- alkynylaniline 36 wa convert into substitut indole 41 under mild reaction condition. the process wa propos to start with the formation of a triazolyl- copper specy 38, which evolv into intermediate 39 via N2 extrusion and copper migration. a subsequent intramolecular cyclization led to 2- aminoindole 40. finally, an intermolecular michael addition to alkene 37 and tautomerization would afford indole 41. n-(2- alkynylphenyl) lactam could easily be convert into fus indol as report by zhang(scheme 9). 21 thus, the thermal treatment of lactam 42 with PtCl4 as catalyst under an atmosphere of O2 selectively yield indole 45. the reaction wa initiat by an aminometallation which led to metal- ammonium ylide 43. then, two consecutive migration reaction took place. firstly, a 1, 2- acyl migration gave rise to platinum- carbene intermediate 44, which scheme 8 copper- catalyz multicomponent synthesis of indole 41.<!-- image--> scheme 9 platinum- catalyz synthesis of fus indole 45.<!-- image--> finally underwent 1, 2- alkyl migration to yield the correspond indole 45. a relat process occur when employ amin instead of amid as start material and rhenium or tungsten complex as catalyst. 22 a relat platinum carbene wa generat in situ from propargyl ether 46 through an alkyne activation as describ by iwasawa(scheme 10). 23 here, platinum carbene specy 49 result from a cyclization/ elimination sequence through intermediate 48, and wa subsequently trap in the presence of an excess of vinyl ether 47. thus, this protocol enabl the preparation of fus indole 51 in good yield. scheme 10 platinum- catalyz synthesis of fus indole 51.<!-- image--> indole synthes from o- haloanilin indole synthes from o- haloanilin since it first report in 1991, the larock indole synthesis ha become one of the most attractive and practical method for download by brown university on 05 december 2012 the preparation of 2, 3- disubstitut indol, 24 and it ha been extensively studi. 4 g, h this protocol consist of a palladium- catalyz 25 heteroannulation of internal alkyn with n- protect o- iodoanilin(scheme 11), however, alternativ which enable the use of o- bromo- or o- chloroanilin as well as halobenzoic acid as