indole synthesis via hofmann- rearrangement indole synthesis via hofmann- rearrangement<!-- image--> a multicatalytic one- pot reaction us 1-(2- alkynylphenyl) ketoxime derivativ to prepare n- acyl indol wa disclos by wu. 63 this protocol consist of an indium and cyanuric chloride(CNC) co- catalyz beckmann- type rearrangement of a ketoxime such as 141, which afford non- isolat o- alkynyl aniline intermediate 142. subsequently, palladium- catalyz cyclization in the presence of an excess of CuCl2 led to 3- chlorosubstitut indole 143(scheme 33). scheme 33 indole synthesis via beckmann- rearrangement.<!-- image--> the use of n- acylbenzotriazole derivativ and internal alkyn wa exploit by nakamura to prepare 1, 2, 3- trisubstitut indol. 64 in this interest approach to indol, the key step wa the generation of a 2- aminobenzenediazonium specy such as 146, a reminiscent intermediate of the larock indole synthesis(see scheme 11). thus, cleavage of the n- n- bond of benzotriazole 144 at high temperature afford intermediate 146 and set the stage for oxidative addition to form the arylpalladium specy 147, which further insert into the alkyne 145, yield indole 148(scheme 34). 65 scheme 34 indole synthesis from benzotriazol via n- n- bond cleavage.<!-- image--> indole synthes through c- h- bond functionalization indole synthes through c- h- bond functionalization modern transition metal- catalyz transformation for a fast assembly of the indole core require the use of ortho- substitut anilin or 1, 2- dihaloaren, which should be prefunctionaliz, thereby lengthen synthetic sequenc and restrict to some extent their availability. other attractive alternativ comprise the use of stoichiometric amount of organometallic reagent, or relatively dangerous start material such as azid, diazo compound or diazonium salt. an approach start from mono- functionaliz aren, which should involve a c- h- bond functionalization, would be highly desirable. in this way, a wider collection of start material would be accessible and synthetic rout would be shorten, present this strategy as an attractive alternative to prepare indol in a more efficient manner. this section summariz recent achievement in indole synthes via c- h- bond functionalization. 66 an intramolecular oxidative cyclization of n- aryl enamin wa report by glorius. 67 this flexible procedure enabl the synthesis of, among other, functionaliz indole 150(scheme 35). this palladium- catalyz transformation made use of easy- to- prepare enamine 149 as start material, however a large excess of a copper salt wa requir as terminal oxidant. here, a large variety of anilin could be us since the transformation did not occur via electrophilic aromatic substitution, as wa reveal by mechanistic study, which support a s- bond metathesis or a deprotonation for the creation of the new c- c- bond. scheme 35 palladium- catalyz oxidative cyclization of enamine 149.<!-- image--> interestingly, enamin could be generat in situ via condensation and further transform into the correspond indol in comparable yield. later, several variant of this protocol were report. thus, this oxidative cyclization could be accomplish us copper or iron catalyst 68 or wa promot by iodine(III) compound. 69 download by brown university on 05 december 2012 on the contrary, a c- n- bond formation via palladium- catalyz intramolecular amination of an aromatic c- h- bond wa the strategy employ by hartwig to prepare indol. 70 this attractive approach made use of b- aryl oxime ester derivativ, such as 151, which wa convert into indole 155 us a pd(0) catalyst(scheme 36). the neutral- redox condition of this methodology should be noteworthy, since the use of external oxidant wa suppres. the propos catalytic cycle likely start with a n- o- bond oxidative addition to oxime 151 to afford palladium specy 152, which after a tautomerization set the stage for the c- h- bond cleavage. palladacycle intermediate 154 would lead to the final indole through a c- n- reductive elimination. scheme 36 palladium- catalyz amination with oxime ester 151.<!-- image--> in term of synthetic flexibility and operational simplicity, intermolecular oxidative coupling would be more convenient approach to the indole core, as wa cleverly devis by fagnou. 71 hence, in an evocation of the larock indole synthesis, fagnou develop a rhodium- catalyz cyclization of protect anilin with alkyn. extensive optimization study allow for the development of mild reaction condition, which turn out in a remarkably ample scope and made possible the use of simple O2 as terminal oxidant. 72 for example, us anilide 156 and alkyne 157, 5- chloro- substitut indole 160 wa obtain in good yield and with complete regioselectivity(scheme 37). this remarkable transformation wa propos to occur through a sequence start with a c- h- bond cleavage. rhodacycle intermediate 158 would undergo a carbo- rhodation into the alkyne to generate a new rhodacycle specy 159, which evolv via c- n- reductive elimination to produce the desir indole 160. 73 scheme 37 intermolecular rhodium- catalyz oxidative cyclization.<!-- image--> summary and outlook summary and outlook synthes of indole derivativ represent an amaz area of research for organic chemist. in addition, due to the relevance of indol, effort to develop their efficient synthes influence other research area, includ biology, medicine and material science, thereby affect our society and our life. the most recent and remarkable discovery in the synthes of indol are present in this review. a plethora of versatile methodology bas on transition metal- catalyz cyclization, c- c- or c- n- bond formation crosscoupl reaction are currently available and allow for the assembly of functionaliz indol. while these protocol ensure the regioselective preparation of the de