ediate 48, and wa subsequently trap in the presence of an excess of vinyl ether 47. thus, this protocol enabl the preparation of fus indole 51 in good yield. scheme 10 platinum- catalyz synthesis of fus indole 51.<!-- image--> indole synthes from o- haloanilin indole synthes from o- haloanilin since it first report in 1991, the larock indole synthesis ha become one of the most attractive and practical method for the preparation of 2, 3- disubstitut indol, 24 and it ha been extensively studi. 4 g, h this protocol consist of a palladium- catalyz 25 heteroannulation of internal alkyn with n- protect o- iodoanilin(scheme 11), however, alternativ which enable the use of o- bromo- or o- chloroanilin as well as halobenzoic acid as precursor have been develop. 26 a major drawback of this protocol aris in the control of the regioselectivity when unsymmetrical alkyn are us. normally, the more sterically hinder group is attach at position c- 2. nevertheless, with similarly substitut alkyn, mixtur of regioisomer are obtain. scheme 11 larock indole synthesis.<!-- image--> on the contrary, intramolecular version of the larock indole synthesis give rise to regioselectively substitut indol. 27 the importance and validity of this approach becom apparent in the next example. here, boger made use of the larock' s procedure to prepare complex indole 53(scheme 12), which is a key intermediate in the synthesis of relevant natural product such as chloropeptin. 28 although a stoichiometric amount of pd(OAc) 2 wa requir, the impressive yield obtain is noteworthy consider the dense functionalization of the start aniline 52. scheme 12 synthesis of densely functionaliz indole 53 us larock' s procedure.<!-- image--> a different approach to indol us o- chloroanilin and internal alkyn wa describ by ackermann(scheme 13). 29 this protocol compris a multicatalytic sequence. for instance, indole 57 wa obtain start with a highly regioselective titanium- catalyz hydroamination of unsymmetrical alkyne 55 scheme 13 synthesis of indole 57 via titanium- catalyz hydroamination/ palladium- catalyz heck- coupl.<!-- image--> with aniline 54, follow by a subsequent palladium- catalyz intramolecular heck- coupl in intermediate 56. the best result for the heck reaction were obtain when us electron- rich PCy3 or sterically hinder imidazolium salt as preligand. moreover, this sequential procedure could be achiev us ruthenium- catalyz hydroamination as well. 30 barluenga describ an alternative approach to regioselectively access indol from o- haloanilin us alkenyl bromid as coupl partner. 31 here, a catalytic system compris Pd2(dba) 3 and electron- rich phosphine DavePhos enabl the synthesis of 2- substitut indole 61 from aniline 58 and a- bromostyrene(59)(scheme 14). interestingly, the reaction proceed exclusively through the cleavage of the c- br- bond, while the c- cl- bond remain unalter. this cascade reaction start with a buchwald- hartwig- type c- n- bond formation giv rise to intermediate 60, which underwent an intramolecular heck- coupl. alternatively, the use of tran- 1, 2- bromoalkene derivativ afford the correspond 3- substitut indol. scheme 14 palladium- catalyz synthesis of indole 61 via c- n- bond formation/ heck coupl sequence.<!-- image--> indole synthes from o- alkynylhaloaren or o- dihaloaren indole synthes from o- alkynylhaloaren or o- dihaloaren in contrast to well studi approach to indole synthes from aniline derivativ, the use of dihaloaren ha receiv far less attention. however, the development of efficient and versatile transition metal- catalyz c- n- bond formation process through buchwald- hartwig or ullman- goldberg- type coupling ha enabl the establishment of new methodology to prepare indol from o- alkynylhaloaren or dihaloaren and amin. the most relevant exampl regard the use of these start material are discus in this section. a catalytic two- step one- pot procedure for the synthesis of 2- substitut indol us o- alkynylchloroaren wa describ by doye. 32 the combination of a titanium- catalyz hydroamination of alkyne 62 with sterically hinder amine 63, follow by a subsequent palladium- catalyz n- arylation of the enamine 65 afford indole 66 in good yield(scheme 15). interestingly, fus indol could be assembl with an intramolecular version of this protocol. remarkably, this overall transformation could be achiev with a single catalyst, as report by ackermann. 33 thus, the sole use of palladium or low- pric copper 33 a, 34 catalyst enabl the accomplishment of this transformation with superior efficiency in term of yield and shorten reaction tim. in some cas, milder bas such as K3PO4 could be employ, 35 thereby allow scheme 15 one- pot hydroamination/ c- n- bond formation synthesis of indole 66.(l= 1, 3- bis(2, 4, 6- trimethylphenyl) imidazolium chloride).<!-- image--> a better functional group tolerance. in addition, ackermann found that a sonogashira- coupl reaction wa compatible with the hydroamination/ amination sequence. 33 this overall transformation simplifi the preparation of indole 69, which could be acces directly from o- dihaloarene 67 by a sequential treatment with alkyne 25 and p- toluidine(68)(scheme 16). scheme 16 one- pot synthesis of indole 69 from o- dihaloarene 67(l= 1, 3- bis(2, 4, 6- trimethylphenyl) imidazolium chloride).<!-- image--> a novel route to indole synthesis us o- dihaloaren and imin wa devis by barluenga. 36 in this methodology an a- deprotonation of the imine set the stage to allow two consecutive palladium- catalyz cross- coupl process. thus, under basic condition, imine 71 wa a- arylat with unsymmetric dihaloarene 70 to yield intermediate imine