anilin as substrat. 45 thus, a straightforward preparation of 3- alkoxyindole 95 wa achiev from aniline 92 us PtCl 2 as catalyst. moreover, it wa found that an excess of simple acid such as SiO 2 or p- toluenesulfonic acid promot the transformation as well(scheme 22). a mechanistic proposal for the brønst acid- promot reaction would start with an alkyne activation by the acid, which trigger the cyclization to generate ammonium intermediate 93. then, a facilitat 3- aza- cope rearrangement toward immonium specy 94 and subsequent aromatization likely afford the final product. scheme 22 brønst acid- promot cyclization of aniline 92.<!-- image--> in a relat report, chan describ a gold- catalyz 5exo- dig cyclization of tertiary propargyl alcohol. 46 in this study, a variety of differently substitut indol could be obtain, however, their structur had a strong dependence on the substrate. for example, alkynol 96 wa convert into 2- vinylindole 99 in the presence of HMPA us an in situ generat cationic gold catalyst(scheme 23). the formation of indole 99 took place through a gold- promot cyclization, which afford ammonium specy 97. subsequent proton abstraction gave rise to alcohol 98, which underwent a dehydration efficiently yield indole 99. despite it beneficial influence, the role of the HPMA remain unclear at this stage. scheme 23 gold- catalyz cyclization of alkynol 96.<!-- image--> indole synthes from acetophenone derivativ indole synthes from acetophenone derivativ as wa shown in the previous section, anilin or haloaren bear an alkenyl or alkynyl substituent at the ortho position have become the trendiest substrat for the synthesis of indol. in contrast, pei disclos an attractive alternative to access 2substituted indole derivativ us o- aminochloroacetophenon and grignard reagent, which did not require the presence of transition metal catalyst. 47 in this manner, the treatment of chloroketone 100 with alkynyl grignard 101 under very mild download by brown university on 05 december 2012 reaction condition afford indole 104 in a reasonable yield(scheme 24). the reaction wa likely start with the addition of the organometallic reagent. then, a key step consist of a[1, 2]- aryl migration in intermediate 102 took place, afford new ketone 103, which gave rise to indole 104 through an intramolecular condensation. 48 scheme 24 synthesis of indole 104 from chloroketone 100.<!-- image--> a copper- catalyz synthesis of indole- 2- carboxylic acid ester from 2- haloarylketon and isocyanoacetat wa report by cai. 49 although the use of 2- bromoaren yield the desir indol in good yield, it is remarkable that this ligand- free protocol could be efficiently achiev with less reactive 2- chloroketone 105(Scheme25). asequenceinvolvingacondensation/ intramolecular c- n- bond formation/ deformylation likely operat to assemble the indole core. scheme 25 copper- catalyz synthesis of indole 107.<!-- image--> a different ligand- free copper- catalyz indole synthesis compris the use of terminal alkyn and hydrazon deriv from 2aminobenzaldehydes wa very recently describ by wang. 50 thus, 2- substitut indole 112 could be prepar from hydrazone 108 and alkyne 25, us CuBr as catalyst and Cs2CO3 as a mild base(scheme 26). a mechanistic proposal would involve a coupl of the alkyne with an in situ generat carbene to give rise to intermediate 110, which could evolve via isomerization/ cyclization to yield indole 112. unfortunately, the scope of this transformation seem still limit, since only very few exampl have been report. indole synthes from arylhydrazin and relat compound indole synthes from arylhydrazin and relat compound the fischer indole synthesis ha remain as one of the essential methodology for the synthesis of indole derivativ. this approach consist of the condensation of an aromatic hydrazine with a ketone, follow by a[3, 3]- sigmatropic rearrangement, subsequent ammonia elimination and aromatization(fig. 2, a). 51 a mechanistically relat process, which could be start with an alkyne hydroamination reaction constitut an interest alternative route to the indole scaffold(fig. 2, b). scheme 26 copper- catalyz coupl of hydrazone 108 with alkyne 25.<!-- image--> fig. 2 fischer indole synthesis vs. alkyne hydroamination- bas indole synthesis.<!-- image--> pioneer study of this interest approach were accomplish by bergman, where zirconium- mediat domino hydroamination- fischer- type cyclization were report. 52 later, catalytic procedur us titanium catalyst and zinc salt as additiv were develop by odom and other. 53 despite the interest of this reaction, these protocol unfortunately present some drawback in term of the sensitivity of functional group toward titanium, the necessity to protect the hydrazine or low regioselectivity. some of these disadvantag were elegantly overcome by beller. 54 thus, it wa found that titanium wa not requir to promote the hydroamination step. thereby, zinc act as lewis acid wa apparently induc both the hydroamination and the subsequent cyclization. this easy protocol enabl the preparation of a variety of indol from readily available reagent. for instance, zinc- mediat reaction of commercially accessible hydrazine 113 with terminal alkyne 114 afford hydroxy- functionaliz indole 116 with complete markovnikov regioselectivity(scheme 27). scheme 27 zinc- mediat hydroamination- fischer cyclization.<!-- image--> a different pathway to access an enamine intermediate such as 115 in indole synthesis wa shrewdly design by knochel. 55 in this approach hydrazin were replac by aryldiazonium salt, which are readily available reagent. moreover, the use of alkyn as coupl partner wa substitut by alkylzinc reagent, which conveniently tolerat a variety of valuable functional group. as an example,