group and low reaction temperatur. 42 biocatalysis also provid a fresh avenue for the c- h functionalization directly of unprotect indol, enabl the synthesis of C3- functionaliz derivativ. this approach, utiliz engineer variant of myoglobin, bypass the limitation of traditional metal- catalyz carbene transfer, which typically requir n- protect indol. 43 selective halogenation, nitration and sulfonation selective halogenation, nitration and sulfonation for selective halogenation(figure 11), a control α- monoand α, α- di- halogenation of alkyl sulfon can be attain by employ electrophilic halogenation with base mediation, highlight the importance of solvent- electrophile interaction for product control. 44 similarly, the palladium- catalyz oxidative c- h halogenation of s- unprotect sulfid, direct by pyridinyl group, prevent sulfur oxidation while form c- x bond, demonstrat a method for synthesiz sulfanyl polyhalid and polyaromatic with high selectivity. 45 in the realm of nitration, the halogen- direct effect in the sulfonation of halogen- toluen reveal that halogen substituent predominantly direct the nitration to the para position over the methyl substituent, showcas the subtle interplay of electronic effect in determin nitration pattern. 46 for sulfonation, the direct sulfonation of aromatic hydrocarbon and their halogen derivativ us various sulfur reagent is a more straightforward approach than indirect method. this method is pivotal for introduc sulfonic acid, sulfonyl chloride and sulfonyl fluoride group into aromatic system, show broad applicability and convenience. 47 application in organic synthesis application in organic synthesis natural product synthesis natural product synthesis the indole moiety, a prominent and structurally significant component, play a crucial role in the process of creat natural item, particularly alkaloid. this two- cycle arrangement, compos of a benzene ring fus to a pyrrole ring, is foundational in a myriad of bioactive compound and pharmaceutical. one of the most classical and still relevant method for synthesiz indol is the fischer indole synthesis(FIS), which ha been widely utiliz throughout the whole process of creat natural product. this method illustrat the endur value of FIS in generat indole ring that form the core of many alkaloid and other biologically active compound. 48 figure 10: n- 1 functionalization(vilsmeier- haack reaction with indole).<!-- image--> figure 11: selective halogenation, nitration and sulfonation.<!-- image--> furthermore, palladium- catalyz reaction have become an effective synthesis technique. and functionalization of indol. these method have been instrumental in construct the indole nucleus of many natural product, demonstrat the critical palladium' s involvement in catalysis in the modern synthesis of complex molecul. 49 recent advanc have also showcas the synthesis of indole derivativ through green approach, emphasiz the importance of sustainable methodology in the construction of indole- bas compound. these method highlight the ongo innovation in indole synthesis, contribut to the development of pharmaceutical and the exploration of new biological activity. 50 indol are also key scaffold in multicomponent reaction, a testament to their utility in creat diverse heterocyclic compound. this approach ha facilitat the design of novel polycyclic structur by incorporat multiple fus heterocyclic scaffold, thereby expand the chemical and biomedical relevance of indole derivativ. 51 pharmaceutical application pharmaceutical application indole derivativ hold a pivotal position in pharmaceutical chemistry because they engage in a variety of biological activity, mak them essential component in the development of therapeutic agent. the versatility of the indole moiety allow for it incorporation into a myriad of pharmacologically active molecul target various diseas, includ cancer, viral infection, psychiatric disorder, hypertension, migrain, arthritis and pain management. new advanc in the production of derivativ of indole through green methodology have further enhanc their pharmaceutical applicability. these green approach offer advantag such as high yield, short reaction tim, cost- effectiveness, efficiency and environmental friendliness, addres the limitation of conventional synthetic method. the shift toward green chemistry underscor the commitment to sustainable practic in drug development and highlight the ongo innovation in the synthesis of indole- bas pharmaceutical. 50 indole derivativ exhibit a broad spectrum of biological activity, such as antioxidant, antibacterial, antitubercular, antiviral, anti- inflammatory, anticancer, anti- HIV, antidiabetic, antimalarial and anticholinesterase property. this wide range of activity ha fuel research into synthesiz a variety of indole derivativ, driven by their significant therapeutic potential and the pursuit of novel treatment for diverse medical condition. 52 the importance of indole derivativ in the pharmaceutical landscape is further highlight by their role in central nervous system(CNS) disorder. several market drug for CNS disorder, such as binedaline, amedalin, pindolol, siramesine and oxypertine, feature the indole moiety. this focus on CNS- active indole derivativ emphasiz their critical role in addres mental health condition and neurological disorder, provid a foundation for future drug development effort target the CNS. 53 moreover, the medicinal significance of indol is evident in the structure- activity relationship(SAR) study of various indole analog,