jurong island, singapore correspondence: bmyang@ tjufz. org. cn(b.- m. y.), zhaoyu@ nus. edu. sg(y. z.) http:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/ j. checat. 2022. 10. 004 scheme 1. palladium- catalyz atroposelective indolization to access axially chiral n- aryl indol<!-- image--><!-- image--> helical chirality). in other cas, indolization is achiev in cascade with another enantioselective step, lead to direct construction of enantioenrich indole- contain compound from simple substrat. scheme 2. organocatalytic atroposelective indolization of ynamid to access axially chiral n- aryl indol<!-- image--> review review scheme 3. pd- catalyz enantioselective oxidative cacchi reaction for the synthesis of indol bear a chiral C2- aryl axis<!-- image--> 1. ATROPOSELECTIVE INDOLIZATION OF 2- ALKYNYLANILINES 1. ATROPOSELECTIVE INDOLIZATION OF 2- ALKYNYLANILINES 2- alkynylanilin, which are easily accessible from simple start material, can serve as a valuable precursor for the construction of indol through cyclization. 15- 21 in 1985, taylor, mckillop and co- worker report the first example of pd- catalyz cyclization of 2- alkynylanilin to afford indol. 22 subsequently, a sery of methodology have been report to access indol us 2- alkynylanilin as the substrate. despite these significant achievement, achiev enantio- control in indolization of 2- alkynylanilin remain elusive due to the absence of intrinsic chirality of the indole unit. in 2010, kitagawa and co- worker report a catalytic atroposelective indolization of 2- alkynylanilin for the construction of axially chiral indol bear a carbonnitrogen chiral axis(scheme 1). 23 under condition utiliz PdCl2/(r)- segpho as the catalyst, indolization of a sery of n- aryl- 2- alkynylanilin 10 yield axially chiral indol 11 in good yield with moderate to good enantioselectivity. the result demonstrat that the enantioselectivity of this transformation wa influenc by the substituent r on the alkyne moiety. while the presence of aromatic substituent gave better enantioselectivity than aliphatic on(11a vs. 11b), the presence of ortho- substituent in the aryl unit on the alkyne<!-- image--><!-- image--> scheme 4. pd- catalyz enantioselective cacchi reaction for the synthesis of indol bear a chiral C3- aryl axis<!-- image--> led to further improv enantioselectivity(11c and 11d vs. 11a). the author propos that the enhanc enantioselectivity with ortho- substitut product is likely due to chiral relay through the dynamic axial chirality of the calkynyl- caryl scheme 5. rh(III)- catalyz oxidative coupl of indol and 2- alkynylanilin<!-- image--> review review scheme 6. organocatalytic asymmetric formal iodoaminocyclization of alkyn via vinylidene ortho- quinone methide intermediate<!-- image--> bond. 24 as shown in scheme 1, indolization in transition station 12 is more favor than that in 12 0 that involv more steric repulsion in the two substituent(t bu and r 0). it is worth not that this elegant work represent the first example of catalytic enantioselective indolization. follow this work, 2- alkynylaniline ha become a versatile substrate for the preparation of enantioenrich indol through either enantiodetermin indolization or indolization- contain enantioselective cascade transformation. very recently, ye and co- worker report a chiral phosphoric acid- catalyz direct indolization of 2- ynamide- substitut anilin 13, form axially chiral 2- amino- indol 14 with a c- n linkage in excellent yield and enantioselectivity(scheme 2). 25 substituent r 1 can tolerate both electron- donat and electronwithdraw group, while only benzyl- type substituent are suitable as the r 3 group. bas on the mechanistic study, the author propos the mechanism with chiral phosphoric acid addition to the ynamide unit, form the key intermediate 15 that undergo an intramolecular nucleophilic substitution via the amino unit to afford axially chiral indole product 14.<!-- image--> scheme 7. au- catalyz indolization follow by CPA- catalyz asymmetric michael addition<!-- image--><!-- image--> in 1992, cacchi and co- worker report a palladium- catalyz cascade indolization/ cross- coupl of 2- alkynylanilin with aryl halid or vinyl triflat for the preparation of functionaliz indol. this strategy enabl a highly efficient access to diverse 2, 3- disubstitit indol and is later refer to as the cacchi reaction. 26, 27 although this reaction ha been widely us in the synthesis of indole derivativ, an enantioselective variant remain elusive until the recent report on an asymmetric oxidative cacchi reaction by zhu and co- worker in 2020(scheme 3). 28 this work introduc a highly efficient and versatile construction of axially chiral 2, 3diarylindoles bear a chiral axis at the C2 position, by the reaction of n- sulfonyl- 2alkynylanilines 16 with aryl boronic acid under oxidative palladium catalysis. mechanistic study indicat that the reaction is initiat by transmetallation of palladium(II) with the borate specy deriv from the aryl boronic acid substrate. the resultant pd specy then coordinat with the triple bond in 16 as a p- acid to form the key intermediate 18(favor over the diastereomeric 18 0 due to steric interaction between substituent on the aryl group at the alkyne moiety with the catalyst). subsequent indolization produc 19 in an atroposelective manner, which is follow by reductive elimination to afford the desir 2, 3- diaryl indole 17. oxidation of pd(0) back to pd(II) then complet the catalytic cycle. follow the previous work on the preparation of indol bear a chiral axis at the C2 position, the li group 29 and the wang group 30 report, independently in 2021, the pd- catalyz enantioselective cacchi reaction between 2- alkynylailin 20/ 20 0 and aryl halid 21/ 21 0. notably enantioenr