(scheme 13). 49 a broad scope of both substrat were well- tolerat to deliver the desir product in moderate to good yield with excellent enantioselectivity. in addition, by the use of substrate 54 with a bulky aryl R3 substituent, the methodology is also suitable for the construction of enantioenrich product with both central and axial chirality(55c and 55c0), albeit with a low diastereoselectivity(dr 1. 1 to 1. 5). the propos reaction pathway is shown in scheme 13. 49, 50 oxidative addition of pd(0) to the aryl iodide unit in 53 form intermediate 56, which undergo a desymmetriz c- c bond activation of the cyclobutanone unit to form alkylpalladium review review scheme 19. organocatalytic cascade to bridg biaryl with defin axial and central chirality<!-- image--> intermediate 57. subsequent coordination of pd(II) in intermediate 57 with 2- alkynylaniline substrate 54 promot indolization to deliver intermediate 58. finally, reductive elimination afford the final product 55. in the same year, lauten and co- worker report a palladium- catalyz asymmetric tandem heck/ aminopalladation reaction of 2- alkynylanilin 59 and alkenyl- fus aryl iodid 60, provid a sery of enantioenrich indol 61 bear an all- carbon quaternary center in moderate to good yield and excellent enantioselectivity(scheme 14). 51 the author propos that oxidative addition of palladium to the c- i bond in 60a form intermediate 62, migratory insertion of which then generat the alkylpalladium(II) intermediate 63 that cannot undergo b- hydride elimination. this step serv as the enantiodetermin step of this sequence. coordination of palladium(II) in 63 with the triple bond of 2- alkynyaniline 59a promot indolization through tran- aminopalladation to form 64, reductive elimination of which finally afford the final product 61a. in 2021, ye and co- worker develop a palladium- catalyz intramolecular enantioselective indolization/ heck reaction of cyclopentene- contain 65 for<!-- image--> scheme 20. catalytic asymmetric fischer indolization to access chiral 3- substitut tetrahydrocarbazol<!-- image--><!-- image--> the synthesis of indole- fus bicyclo[3. 2. 1] octan 66 bear a[3, 2, 1] bicyclic unit with excellent enantioselectivity(scheme 15). 52 the propos mechanism involv the coordination of the chiral palladium complex with the triple bond of substrate 65a to promote the follow indolization, afford indolepalladium intermediate 68. subsequently, intramolecular arylpalladation furnish intermediate 69 in an enantioselective fashion, which undergo b- hydride elimination to afford the desir product 66a. oxidation of pd(0) back to pd(II) by oxygen then regenerat the catalyst. in the same year, zhu and co- worker independently report a more challeng intermolecular palladium- catalyz stereoselective tandem indolization/ heck reaction of prochiral cyclopenten 70 and 2- alkynylanilin 71, generat enantioenrich indol 72 with moderate to good yield and good to excellent diastereo- and enantioselectivity(scheme 16). 53 the mechanism of this catalytic system is similar to that in scheme 16. in addition, mechanistic study carri out in this work suggest that the amide group on the cyclopentene substrate 70a is crucial for the control of the enantioselectivity and the reactivity by effective coordination with the palladium center in the postulat intermediate 74. follow the above work, the zhu group further advanc this methodology by achiev a palladium- catalyz highly stereoselective three- component reaction review review scheme 21. catalytic asymmetric fischer indolization to construct chiral helicen<!-- image--> of cyclopenten 76, 2- alkynylanilin 77 and selectfluor(scheme 17). 54 us this method, a range of indole- substitut cyclopentan 78 bear three stereogenic center can be obtain as single stereoisomer in moderate yield with good to excellent enantioselectivity. as shown by the propos mechanism, pd(II)- catalyz indolization of 77a yield 79, which engag amide- substitut cyclopentene 76 to undergo arylpalladation en route to 80 in high stereoselectivity. at this stage, instead of direct b- hydride elimination, an intrigu 1, 2- palladium migration tak place, which is follow by oxidation addition us selectfluor to produce pd(IV) specy 82 via 81 1, 2- aryl migration of this key intermediate, and reductive elimination of the resultant 83 then produc the final product 78a. 2. 3. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin/ borrow hydrogen cascade 2. 3. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin/ borrow hydrogen cascade in 2021, our group establish an efficient iridium/ chiral phosphoric acid- catalyz enantioconvergent borrow hydrogen strategy for the formal friedel- craft alkylation of electron- rich heteroaren such as pyrrol us simple racemic alcohol as the alkylat agent. 55 follow this work, we also report the construction of enantioenrich tricyclic indol 85 from alcohol- fus 2- alkynylanilin 84 through a cascade process of indolization of 2- alkynylaniline follow by intramolecular indole alkylation via borrow hydrogen(scheme 18). 56 bas on the mechanistic study and our previous report, 57- 60 we propos the reaction mechanism as shown below. firstly, the formation of cationic iridium specy is essential for the activation of alkyne in 84 to undergo indolization, yield indole intermediate 86. subsequently a borrow hydrogen process tak place, includ iridium- catalyz dehydrogenation and acid- catalyz friedel- craft ketone addition and dehydration to produce the a, b- unsaturat ketimine intermediate 89 0. finally, reduction of this intermediate by the iridium- hydride specy yield tricyclic indole product 85 in an overall redox- neutral enantioconvergent fashion with the regeneration of catalyst. 2. 4. asymmetric cyclization of aniline to allene 2. 4. asymmetric cyclization of aniline to allene in our