via borrow hydrogen(scheme 18). 56 bas on the mechanistic study and our previous report, 57- 60 we propos the reaction mechanism as shown below. firstly, the formation of cationic iridium specy is essential for the activation of alkyne in 84 to undergo indolization, yield indole intermediate 86. subsequently a borrow hydrogen process tak place, includ iridium- catalyz dehydrogenation and acid- catalyz friedel- craft ketone addition and dehydration to produce the a, b- unsaturat ketimine intermediate 890. finally, reduction of this intermediate by the iridium- hydride specy yield tricyclic indole product 85 in an overall redox- neutral enantioconvergent fashion with the regeneration of catalyst. 2. 4. asymmetric cyclization of aniline to allene 2. 4. asymmetric cyclization of aniline to allene in our group' s exploration of n- heterocyclic carbene(NHC)- catalyz enantioselective acylation of phenol, 61- 63 we became interest in bisphenol or aniline phenol substrat that bear a tertiary alcohol unit such as 90(scheme 19). to our surprise,<!-- image--> scheme 22. enantioselective desymmetriz fischer indolization through dynamic kinetic resolution<!-- image--><!-- image--> these substrat work out with a completely different mechanism: the alternative azolium enolate intermediate 93 is generat, which undergo a facile propargylic substitution onto 90 to produce allene intermediate 94. lactone formation then produc 95 posses an endocyclic allene moiety. at this stage, NHC also serv as a BrØnsted base to activate the sulfonamide to undergo cyclization onto the allene to produce bridg biaryl 92 bear an indole unit. this represent a rare example of indolization via allene insertion and a straightforward access to bridg biaryl in a stereoselective fashion. us this catalytic procedure, a wide range of chiral indol 92 posses both axial and central chirality can be produc in an excellent enantioselectivity as a single atropoisomer. 64 3. ASYMMETRIC FISCHER INDOLIZATION 3. ASYMMETRIC FISCHER INDOLIZATION since it discovery as early as 1883, fischer indolization ha been extensively utiliz for the construction of indol. 65- 67 however, catalytic enantioselective fischer indolization remain elusive for decad due to the lack of intrinsic chirality in indol and the necessity to use stoichiometric acid under harsh condition. some relat exploration of interrupt fischer rindolization to deliver chiral indolin also met with limit success. 68 achiev enantiocontrol in a review review scheme 23. desymmetrization of 1, 3- dion by catalytic enantioselective condensation with hydrazine and derivatization by fischer indolization<!-- image--> sigmatropic rearrangement process ha also remain a significant challenge in asymmetric synthesis. 69 3. 1. enantioselective aza-[3. 3]- sigmatropic rearrangement 3. 1. enantioselective aza-[3. 3]- sigmatropic rearrangement in 2011, list and co- worker report the first catalytic asymmetric fischer indolization in the form of enantioselective desymmetrization of 4- substitut cyclohexane- deriv phenylhydrazon 97(scheme 20). 70 this process us chiral phosphoric acid(CPA) as the catalyst, with the addition of cation exchange resin of CG50 to remove the ammonia side- product. us this methodology, a variety of chiral 3- substitut tetrahydrocarbazol 98 are obtain in high yield with good to excellent enantioselectivity. with comparison to the classical fischer indolization mechanism, the author propos that the initial substrate- CPA adduct 99 can be convert to both diastereomeric enamin 100 and 1000 as an ion pair with CPA, with one of them undergo a more favor irreversible aza-[3. 3]- sigmatropic rearrangement. this dynamic kinetic resolution eventually produc the final product 98 with high enantioselectivity. the ammoniumCPA salt generat in this process is regenerat by the cation exchange resin CG50. three year later, the list group report another elegant example of chiral phosphoric acid- catalyz enantioselective fischer indolization, for the synthesis of indole- fus chiral helicenc 103 from the reaction of hydrazine 101 and tricyclic ketone 102(scheme 21). 71 this represent a rare example of chiral helicene synthesis. 72- 74 in 2021, jindal, mukherjee and co- worker report the desymmetrization of prochiral 2, 2- disubstitut cyclopentane- 1, 3- dion 105 by react it with<!-- image--> scheme 24. CPA- catalyz enantioselective doyle indolization to access axially chiral n- arylindol<!-- image--><!-- image--> arylhydrazin 104 through enantioselective fischer indolization under the cocatalysis of a chiral phosphoric acid and ZnCl2(scheme 22). 75 a variety of ketone- contain indole derivativ 106 were produc with moderate yield and good to excellent enantioselectivity. mechanistic study suggest that the initial condensation between dione 105 and hydrazine 104 is a reversible process, generat interconvertible hydrazone intermediat 107 and 1070. the hydrazon are subsequently tautomeriz to the correspond enehydrazine intermediat 108 and 1080, one of which preferentially undergo the follow indolization to afford the desir product, achiev an overall effective dynamic kinetic resolution. the rate- and enantiodetermin step in this transformation, similar to that in scheme 19, is the aza-[3, 3]- sigmatropic rearrangement. 3. 2. enantioselective hydrazone condensation 3. 2. enantioselective hydrazone condensation the reaction pathway of fischer indolization generally involv two step: hydrazone condensation between ketone and hydrazine follow by<!-- image--> review scheme 25. rh- catalyz oxidative[3+ 2] cycloaddition of anilin with internal alkyn<!-- image--> rearrangement/ cyclization to form the indole product. the few exampl shown above involv the latter step as the enantiodetermin one. in contrast, achiev enantiocontrol in a simple hydrazone condensation step remain elusive until our recent work. 76 in 2021, our