id substrate. the resultant pd specy then coordinat with the triple bond in 16 as a p- acid to form the key intermediate 18(favor over the diastereomeric 18′ due to steric interaction between substituent on the aryl group at the alkyne moiety with the catalyst). subsequent indolization produc 19 in an atroposelective manner, which is follow by reductive elimination to afford the desir 2, 3- diaryl indole 17. oxidation of pd(0) back to pd(II) then complet the catalytic cycle. follow the previous work on the preparation of indol bear a chiral axis at the C2 position, the li group 29 and the wang group 30 report, independently in 2021, the pd- catalyz enantioselective cacchi reaction between 2- alkynylailin 20/ 20′ and aryl halid 21/ 21′. notably enantioenrich indol bear a chiral axis at the C3 position were produc in these reaction with good yield and excellent enantioselectivity(scheme 4). the li group us sulfonyl- protect 20 and an ester- substituent 21 to produce biaryl 22 contain the n- ts unit. in contrast, the wang group adopt trifluoroacetyl- protect 20′ and an electron- rich 21′ as the substrat, the reaction of which yield alkoxide- substitut biaryl 22′ with a free n- h indole. us a c- h functionalization strategy, li and co- worker disclos in 2019 a rh(III)- catalyz oxidative coupl of indole 23 with 2- alkynylanilin 24 to produce axially chiral 2, 3′- bisindol 25 in good yield with excellent enantioselectivity(scheme 5). 31 notably the rotational barrier for these bisindole atropisomer connect by two five- member ring is lower than that of the analogous biphenyl or indole- arene compound. as a result, it is more challeng to construct these bisindol in an atroposelective manner. the mechanism of this rh- catalyz system involv c- h activation of indole 23 to form intermediate 26, which subsequently activat the alkyne moiety in 24 to promote indolization lead to intermediate 27. finally, reductive elimination, which is likely the enantiodetermin step, afford the 2, 3′- bisindole product 25. reoxidation of rh(i) to rh(III) is affect by run the reaction in air. in addition to the above exampl of metal- catalyz atroposelective indolization, organocatalytic method have also been document. in 2021, yan and co- worker report an organocatalytic formal iodoaminocyclization of 2- alkynylanilin 28 bear a 2- naphthol unit for the construction of axially chiral 3- iodo- 2- aryl indol 29 with excellent yield and stereoselectivity(scheme 6). 32 this reaction is propos to proce via atroposelective formation of the key iodo- substitut vinylidene- quinone methide(VQM) intermediate 30 by organocatalytic electrophilic substitution of 28 with NIS(n- iodosuccinimide). subsequent trap of the vinylidene unit in 30 with the aniline motif afford the enantioenrich 3- iodo- 2- aryl indol 29 with transfer of the axially chirality of allene to the biaryl unit. high diastereoselectivity is also obtain for the c- n axis bear the ortho- tBu- substitut arene. notably VQM ha been appli as a powerful and versatile electrophilic intermediate in many asymmetric catalytic system in recent year. 33, 34 2. CASCADE INDOLIZATION OF 2- ALKYNYLANILINES WITH ANOTHER ENANTIOSELECTIVE BOND FORMATION 2. CASCADE INDOLIZATION OF 2- ALKYNYLANILINES WITH ANOTHER ENANTIOSELECTIVE BOND FORMATION the strategy of enantioselective tandem or cascade reaction ha shown significant utility in chemical synthesis over the past few decad. higher efficiency and economy in stereoselective synthesis can be achiev by facile construction of molecular complexity in a one- pot fashion. novel transformation that are not possible us stepwise approach can also be realiz, where unstable, active intermediat can be adopt to achieve multiple bond formation without the ne for difficult isolation. 35- 42 us this strategy, indolization of 2- alkynylanilin ha been combin with various enantioselective transformation to achieve an overall efficient and enantioselective construction of indol. different approach along these lin are discus in the follow section. 2. 1. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin follow by asymmetric nucleophilic addition 2. 1. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin follow by asymmetric nucleophilic addition in 2016, han and co- worker report an intramolecular indolization/ michael addition cascade reaction under relay catalysis of au(i) complex and chiral phosphoric acid. start from cyclohexadienone- fus 2- alkynylainlin(31), tetrahydrocarbazol(32) bear two stereogenic center were afford in excellent yield with good enantioselectivity(scheme 7). 43 mechanistic study indicat that au(i) complex promot the indolization step to form indole intermediate(33) that is too reactive to isolate. subsequent chiral phosphoric acid- catalyz enantioselective michael addition then generat the desir chiral product 32. in 2017, lu and co- wo