elective heck- type reaction 2. 1. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin follow by asymmetric nucleophilic addition 2. 1. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin follow by asymmetric nucleophilic addition in 2016, han and co- worker report an intramolecular indolization/ michael addition cascade reaction under relay catalysis of au(i) complex and chiral phosphoric acid. start from cyclohexadienone- fus 2- alkynylainlin(31), tetrahydrocarbazol(32) bear two stereogenic center were afford in excellent yield with good enantioselectivity(scheme 7). 43 mechanistic study indicat that au(i) complex promot the indolization step to form indole intermediate(33) that is too reactive to isolate. subsequent chiral phosphoric acid- catalyz enantioselective michael addition then generat the desir chiral product 32. in 2017, lu and co- worker achiev the efficient synthesis of enantioenrich 1, 3, 4. 9- tetrahydropyrano[3, 4b] indol 35 us similar substrat 34(scheme 8). 44 the reaction were propos to proce through a palladium- catalyz tandem indolization/ 1, 4- addition of cyclohexadienone- fus 2- alkynylainlin 34 to afford 35 in high yield with excellent enantioselectivity. this reaction tolerat a wide scope of alkyl and aryl group as the R1 substituent, but the electron- withdraw ts- group wa need as the amino protect group. the author propos that the reaction mechanism involv the activation of the triple bond in the substrate 34a by the chiral palladium(II) complex as a p- acid. a tran- aminopalladation tak place to deliver the indole- pd specy 36, which undergo a subsequent desymmetriz insertion to the electron- deficient c= c bond to deliver intermediate 37. protonolysis of this palladium enolate then furnish the desir product 35a with the regeneration of the pd(II) catalyst. scheme 16. pd- catalyz intermolecular cascade cacchi/ enantioselective heck- type reaction in addition to c= c insertion of the indole intermediate generat in situ, it is also possible for such insertion to occur for other typ of unsaturat bond. in 2017, the lu group also report a palladium- catalyz intramolecular indolization in tandem with insertion of the indole- palladium intermediate to a c= o bond(scheme 9) to prepare chiral indol 40 via desymmetrization of the diketone substrate 39. 45 the chiral palladium complex coordinat with the triple bond in 39 to induce indolization, generat intermediate 41. the desir product 42 is then furnish by subsequent c= o bond insertion of the palladium intermediate follow by protonolysis. the level of enantioselectivity for this catalytic system, however, wa only moderate. continu the above work, the same group develop an efficient approach for the construction of 1, 2, 3, 4- tetrahydrob- carbolin 44 bear a tertiary alcohol stereocenter from a ketone- contain 2- alkynylanilin 43. the same catalytic strategy us pd(OAc) 2 and a chiral pyridine- oxazoline ligand wa adopt to deliver product 44 in moderate to good yield and good to excellent enantioselectivity(scheme 10). 46 in this system, the addition of 1, 4- benzoquinone as an additive wa shown to be beneficial for the reactivity of this catalytic system. in 2021, liu and co- worker demonstrat a highly enantioselective palladium- catalyz indolization/ desymmetriz nitrile addition cascade reaction for the synthesis of enantioenrich carbazolon 46 from the gem- dinitril 45(scheme 11). 47 a variety of 46 bear an all- carbon quaternary center were efficiently prepar in good yield with excellent level of enantioselectivity. this reaction tolerat a wide scope of R1 and R2, but the n- ms group wa crucial for the enantioselectivity and reactivity of this system. the propos mechanism involv pd- catalyz indolization of 45a review scheme 17. pd- catalyz enantioselective cyclative cross- coupl of 2- alkynylanilin, cyclopenten, and selectfluor via 47 to afford intermediate 48. subsequently, desymmetriz insertion of the pd intermediate to one of the cyanid deliver intermediate 49 that undergo protonation and hydrolysis with acid to give the product 46a. the wang group report in 2020 an rh/ pd relay catalytic system for the ring open of oxabicycle 50 with 2- alkynylanilin 51 follow by indolization(scheme 12). 48 notably in this example the amine in 51 serv as a nucleophile for the enantioselective rd- catalyz hydroamination of 50, produc the key alkyne- contain amino alcohol intermediate as shown below. pd- catalyz indolization then follow to yield the n- substitut indol 52 in high yield and enantioselectivity. 2. 2. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin/ heck cascade 2. 2. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin/ heck cascade in 2021, xu and co- worker report a palladium- catalyz asymmetric tandem c- c bond activation/ cacchi reaction of cyclobutanone- fus indobenzene 53 with scheme 18. tandem catalytic indolization/ enantioconvergent substitution of alcohol by borrow hydrogen 2- alkynylanilin 54, provid a sery of indol 55 bear an indanone motif(scheme 13). 49 a broad scope of both substrat were well- tolerat to deliver the desir product in moderate to good yield with excellent enantioselectivity. in addition, by the use of substrate 54 with a bulky aryl R3 substituent, the methodology is also suitable for the construction of enantioenrich product with both central and axial chirality(55c and 55c0), albeit with a low diastereoselectivity(dr 1. 1 to 1. 5). the propos reaction pathway is shown in scheme 13. 49, 50 oxidative addition of pd(0) to the aryl iodide unit in 53 form intermediate 56, which undergo a desymmetriz c- c bond activation of the cyclobutanone unit to form alkylpalladium review review scheme 19. organocatalytic cascade to bridg biaryl with defin axial and central chirality