review review enantioselective synthesis of indol through catalytic indolization enantioselective synthesis of indol through catalytic indolization bin- miao yang, 1, xiao qian ng, 2, 3 and yu zhao 1, 2, SUMMARY SUMMARY a variety of chiral indole- contain functional molecul are of great importance in chemistry and medicine. these compound have traditionally been prepar by enantioselective functionalization of simple indole substrat. although diverse indolization method are establish for the construction of indol, achiev enantioselectivity directly in these transformation remain elusive until the past decade or so. in this review, we summarize various catalytic indolization strategy for the enantioselective construction of chiral substitut indol or novel indole- bas backbon bear an axial or helical chirality. the cyclization of 2- alkynylanilin either in a direct atroposelective fashion or in cascade with another enantiodetermin transformation will be describ. subsequently, the development of enantioselective fischer indolization, doyle indolization, and chiral indole synthesis via a formal cycloaddition will also be review. INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION indole is one of the most widely present heteroaren in chemistry and medicine. a variety of chiral indole- contain functional molecul are of great importance(figure 1). for the case of natural product, indole- bas exampl include proteinogenic amino acid l- tryptophan(1), the aspidosperma alkaloid goniomitine(2) isolat from the root bark of gonioma malagasy 1 and the pentacyclic monoterpenoid alkaloid andranginine(3) 2 isolat from craspidospermum verticillatum. numerous indole- bas pharmaceutical are also of great importance, which include the powerful antimigraine medicine frovatriptan(4), 3 statin- bas blood cholesterol drug fluvastatin(5) 4 and the receptor antagonist pharmaceutical tropisetron(6). 5 last but not least, indole- bas backbon also find application as chiral ligand in asymmetric catalysis, as exemplifi by axially chiral indole- fus phosphine ligand BISCAP(7), 6 n- me- 2- BINPO(8), 7 and INDOLPhos(9). 8 due to the importance of chiral indole- contain compound, development of efficient strategy for the construction of enantioenrich indol remain an important research topic in chemical synthesis. toward this goal, the majority of establish method have focus on asymmetric functionalization of simple indol, us strategy such as friedel- craft reaction and nucleophilic addition. 9- 12 although extensive development of indolization method have been document in the literature, 13, 14 realization of stereocontrol in indolization reaction wa not practic for decad due to the absence of intrinsic chirality in the indole moiety. only in the past decade or so, catalytic asymmetric indolization ha caught much interest, by the design and development of novel indole- contain backbon as well as new cascade transformation. in this review, we summarize various catalytic indolization strategy for the enantioselective construction of chiral substitut indol THE BIGGER PICTURE THE BIGGER PICTURE indolization, the process of indole construction from acyclic precursor, ha been extensively explor in synthetic chemistry for the delivery of diversely substitut indol. the introduction of chirality into indole- contain compound, however, ha traditionally been limit to functionalization of indole substrat. this review summariz the new trend and strategy in the enantioselective construction of indole- bas compound, includ(1) catalytic indolization/ functionalization cascad for facile access to diverse enantioenrich indolebas compound and(2) the delivery of novel indole- bas backbon bear an axial or helical chirality. review review figure 1. representative natural product, pharmaceutical, and chiral ligand contain indole skeleton or novel indole- bas backbon bear an axial or helical chirality. these exampl are categoriz into the follow section bas on the type of transformation and operat mechanism: 1. atroposelective indolization of 2- alkynylanilin(schem 1- 6) 2. cascade indolization of 2- alkynylanilin with another enantioselective bond formation 3. 2. 1. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin follow by asymmetric nucleophilic addition(schem 7- 12) 4. 2. 2. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin/ heck cascade(schem 13- 17) 5. 2. 3. indolization of 2- alkynylanilin/ borrow hydrogen cascade(scheme 18) 6. 2. 4. asymmetric cyclization of aniline to allene(scheme 19) 3. asymmetric fischer indolization 8. 3. 1. enantioselective aza-[3. 3]- sigmatropic rearrangement(schem 20- 22) 9. 3. 2. enantioselective hydrazone condensation(scheme 23) 4. asymmetric doyle indolization(scheme 24) 5. asymmetric indolization involv a formal[3+ 2] cycloaddition(schem 25- 29) it is noteworthy that some of these method entail the indolization step as the enantiodetermin event to construct novel chiral indol(e. g., those bear an axial or 3 institute of sustainability for chemical, energy and environment(ISCE2), jurong island, singapore correspondence: bmyang@ tjufz. org. cn(b.- m. y.), zhaoyu@ nus. edu. sg(y. z.) http:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/ j. checat. 2022. 10. 004 scheme 1. palladium- catalyz atroposelective indolization to access axially chiral n- aryl indol scheme 2. organocatalytic atroposelective indolization of ynamid to access axially chiral n- aryl indol review review scheme 3. pd- catalyz enantioselective oxidative cacchi reaction for the synthesis of indol bear a chiral C2- aryl axis 1. ATROPOSELECTIVE IN 1. ATROPOSELECTIVE IN