ium(II) salt which were concomitantly convert into palladium(0). it is presum that the reaction proce via successive electrophilic palladation of the enamine and arene, follow by reductive elimination to give the indole and a reduc palladium specy(scheme 30). the requirement for stoichiometric or excess palladium mak these cyclization rather unattractive, even on relatively small scale. however, the use of additional oxidant such as copper(II) acetate to convert pd(0) back into pd(II) ha render such process much more viable, 63, 64 and ha also been combin with inexpensive iron catalyst to effect the same transformation. 65 furthermore, the use of oxygen as a terminal oxidant ha open up the possibility of more environmentally benign process, 66- 68 while a metal- free variation ha been develop us bis(acetoxy) iodobenzene. 69 a range of condition is summariz in scheme 31. scheme 34 ortho- metalation/ carbometalation strategy.<!-- image--> perspective scheme 35 enamine oxidative cyclization to indol.<!-- image--> scheme 36 cyclization of benzyl oxime ester.<!-- image--> the scope of these reaction ha been limit by the requirement for an electron- withdraw group to stabilize the enamine intermediate, but in a recent development, unstabiliz imin have been convert into indol us palladium catalysis under an oxygen atmosphere(scheme 32A). the direct synthesis of indol from anilin and keton wa also report, although copper(II) acetate wa requir as a stoichiometric co- oxidant(scheme 32B). 70 oxidative cyclization of n- arylenamin can also take place readily when the enamine bear a halogen atom; such substrat scheme 37 a, the sugasawa indole synthesis; b, the gassman indole synthesis.<!-- image--> scheme 38 vinylidene carbene c- h insertion in indole synthesis.<!-- image--> can be acces by simple addition of n- sulfonylanilin to bromoalkyn at elevat temperatur(scheme 33). 71 a mechanistically distinct alternative involv the use of catalytic ortho- metalation of a nitrogen functionality, follow by carbometalation of an alkyne. reductive elimination of the result azametallacycle giv the indole product and a reduc metal specy, from which the active catalyst can be regenerat by copper(II) acetate. the nitrogen functionality can be a 2- pyrimidylamino group 72 or a simple acetamide(scheme 34). 73 in the latter case, the oxidant can also be us in catalytic quantity under an atmosphere of oxygen, allow the reaction temperature to be reduc from 120° c to 60° c. 74 an interest alternative to the oxidative enamine cyclization approach involv the formation of a c- n bond rather than a c- c bond, in a process analogous to the hemetsberger reaction(section 2. 3); this transformation can be carri out with palladium catalysis on tosyl or boc- protect enamin(scheme 35A), 75, 76 or by treatment with bis(trifluoroacetoxy) iodobenzene at room temperature(scheme 35B). 77 n- aryl- 2alkylindoles can also be synthesiz in a similar manner via enamine halogenation with n- chlorosuccinimide or n- bromosuccinimide follow by cyclization with zinc acetate. 78 the cyclization of benzyl oxime ester proceed under palladium catalysis; as the initial step is an oxidative addition of palladium(0) into the n- o bond, this process is overall redox neutral and so no oxidant is requir(scheme 36). 79<!-- image--> scheme 39 synthesis of indole- 3- carboxylat from anilid and ethyl diazoacetate.<!-- image--> 2. 7 miscellaneous method 2. 7 miscellaneous method in addition to the important development discus above, numerous other methodology have emerg for the synthesis of indol in recent year. of these, the sugasawa et al.(scheme 37A) 80 and gassman et al.(scheme 37B) 81 reaction have been us extensively, but require harsh reaction condition. new method continue to be develop, and have yet to find wider application: for example, vinylidene carben will readily insert into arene c- h bond; the appropriate aminoalkyliden can be acces either by lithiation of dibromoenamin(scheme 38A) 82 or by addition of an arylsulfonamide to an alkynyl iodonium salt(scheme 38B). 83 treatment of anilid with ethyl diazoacetate, tri- fluoromethanesulfonic anhydride and a mixture of 2- chloropyridine and 2, 6- dichloropyridine giv, through activation of the amide to nucleophilic attack, the correspond indole- 3ester(scheme 39). 84 the manufacture of simple indol from anilin and ethylene glycol is commercially attractive, but limit by it requirement for extremely high reaction temperatur. recent development in iridium and rhodium catalysis have allow the use of substitut diol to give 2, 3- disubstitut indol(scheme 40A), 85 and the use of triethanolamine as a replacement for ethylene glycol(scheme 40B). 86 in both cas, some substituent are tolerat, but the requirement for elevat temperatur in these reaction ha not yet been fully overcome. 3 conclusion 3 conclusion the indole ring system represent one of the most abundant and important heterocycl in nature, found in neurotransmitter such as serotonin and complex alkaloid such as the clinically us chemotherapeutic agent vinblastine. additionally, a number of important synthetic drug contain an indole ring, and hence this important ring system continu to fascinate chemist worldwide. many approach to indole synthesis, includ several of the modern catalytic method, require an ortho- disubstitut arene precursor, thereby greatly restrict the availability of start material by impos an additional level of constraint, and, o en, synthetic inaccessibility. a more general approach would start from a mono- functionaliz arene such as an aniline or halobenzene, follow by cyclization to an unactivat c- h bond. as this perspective ha demonstrat, several