on the fischer indole synthesis. 2. 2 the bischler indole synthesis and modern variant 2. 2 the bischler indole synthesis and modern variant first report in 1892, the bischler indole synthesis involv alkylation of an aniline with an a- haloketone, follow by acid- catalyz ring closure(scheme 20). 42 although rather limit in scope due to the harsh reaction condition requir, it circumvent the problem associat with arylhydrazin, and ha found widespread application in the synthesis of relatively simple indole derivativ. it can be complicat by rearrangement of the a- anilinoketone intermediate under acidic condition if the aniline is not protect before cyclization, giv isomeric mixtur of product in some cas(scheme 20). a useful variation on the bischler reaction is the use of a- haloaldehyde acetal, which permit access to 3- unsubstitut indol(scheme 21). 43 a further development in the bischler synthesis ha involv the use of n- h insertion reaction of diazo compound and n- alkylanilin us rhodium or copper catalysis, provid a route to n- alkylindole- 2- carboxylat(scheme 22). n- unsubstitut indol could be acces by use of the 2- ethoxycarbonylethyl or 2- phenylsulfonylethyl group as protection for the aniline nitrogen, which could be remov readily under mild basic condition. 44 as with the fischer reaction, the development of hydroamination reaction ha extend the scope of the bischler reaction from keton and aldehyd to alkyn. thus, treatment of a propargylic alcohol with an aniline and catalyst giv the hydroxyenamine, which can tautomerize to the requir a- anilinoketone. Ru3(CO) 12(ref. 45) and zn(OTf) 2(ref. 46) catalyze both the hydroamination and cyclization, giv the indole directly(scheme 23). in both cas, the major indole product is that obtain after isomerization of the anilinoketone. 2. 3 the hemetsberger indole synthesis 2. 3 the hemetsberger indole synthesis b- styryl azid readily undergo thermal decomposition to the correspond 2H- azirin, in equilibrium with the vinyl nitrene isomer, follow by electrocyclization onto the aromatic ring. 47 unlike in the fischer or bischler indole synthes, the C3- C3a bond is already present in the precursor for the hemetsberger reaction; it