o the correspond 2 h- azirin, in equilibrium with the vinyl nitrene isomer, follow by electrocyclization onto the aromatic ring. 47 perspective scheme 22 rhodium or copper catalyz carbene n- h insertion reaction in a variation of the bischler indole synthesis. scheme 23 alkyne hydroamination variant on the bischler synthesis. scheme 24 the hemetsberger indole synthesis. scheme 25 synthesis of the pyrroloindole phosphodiesterase inhibitor PDE- i and PDE- II. scheme 26 a, neber reaction, and b, enamine oxidation as rout to 2H- azirin, and hence indol. unlike in the fischer or bischler indole synthes, the C3- C3a bond is already present in the precursor for the hemetsberger reaction; it is thus particularly suit to the regiospeci c synthesis of 4- or 6- substitut indol from ortho- or para- substitut benzaldehyd(scheme 24). since the reaction is effect simply by heat, it can be us in combination with other thermal process such as the claisen rearrangement, 48 and the result product elaborat into carbazole alkaloid. 49 it is also useful in the synthesis of a range of indole natural product such as coenzyme PQQ, 50 and highly substitut indol, as exemplifi by the synthesis of the pyrroloindol PDE- i and PDE- II, proceed through two sequential hemetsberger reaction(scheme 25). 51 despite the potential hazard associat with the use of azid, the hemetsberger reaction is amenable to scale up and ha been carri on 90 g scale in cook' s synthesis of roeharmine. 52 the hemetsberger reaction can be carri out under transition metal catalysis, us either the azid 53 or azirin 54 as start material. these reaction, us rhodium or iron catalyst, are presum to occur via a metallonitrenoid specy, and allow a significant reduction in reaction temperature. as the azid are prepar by condensation of benzaldehyd with azidoacetate ester, the hemetsberger reaction is limit to the synthesis of indole 2- carboxylat. however, alternative rout to the requisite 2H- azirin have been exploit for the synthesis of indol. these include the neber reaction of oxim(scheme 26A) 55 and the oxidation of enamin with diacetoxyiodobenzene(scheme 26B). 56 2. 4 the nenitzescu indole synthesis 2. 4 the nenitzescu indole synthesis 5- hydroxyindol can be acces in a convergent manner through the nenitzescu reaction of enamin with quinon(scheme 27). 57 the regiochemistry is usually as shown, except scheme 32 oxidative cyclization of n- aryl imin into indol. scheme 33 oxidative cyclization of n- aryl bromoenamin. the synthesis of carbazol from diarylamin(scheme 29A), 61 and of indol from anilin and electron- poor alkyn(scheme 29B), 62 us stoichiometric palladium(II) salt which were concomitantly convert into palladium(0). it is presum that the reaction proce via successive electrophilic palladation of the enamine and arene, follow by reductive elimination to give the indole and a reduc palladium specy(scheme 30). the requirement for stoichiometric or excess palladium mak these cyclization rather unattractive, even on relatively small scale. however, the use of additional oxidant such as copper(II) acetate to convert pd(0) back into pd(II) ha render such process much more viable, 63, 64 and ha also been combin with inexpensive iron catalyst to effect the same transformation. 65 furthermore, the use of oxygen as a terminal oxidant ha open up the possibility of more environmentally benign process, 66- 68 while a metal- free variation ha been develop us bis(acetoxy) iodobenzene. 69 a range of condition is summariz in scheme 31. scheme 34 ortho- metalation/ carbometalation strategy. perspective scheme 35 enamine oxidative cyclization to indol. scheme 36 cyclization of benzyl oxime ester. the scope of these reaction ha been limit by the requirement for an electron- withdraw group to stabilize the enamine intermediate, but in a recent development, unstabiliz imin have been convert into indol us palladium catalysis under an oxygen atmosphere(scheme 32A). the direct synthesis of indol from anilin and keton wa also report, although copper(II) acetate wa requir as a stoichiometric co- oxidant(scheme 32B). 70 oxidative cyclization of n- arylenamin can also take place readily when the enamine bear a halogen atom; such substrat scheme 37 a, the sugasawa indole synthesis; b, the gassman indole synthesis. scheme 38 vinylidene carbene c- h insertion in indole synthesis. can be acces by simple addition of n- sulfonylanilin to bromoalkyn at elevat temperatur(scheme 33). 71 a mechanistically distinct alternative involv the use of catalytic ortho- metalation of a nitrogen functionality, follow by carbometalation of an alkyne. reductive elimination of the result azametallacycle giv the indole product and a reduc metal specy, from which the active catalyst can be regenerat by copper(II) acetate. the nitrogen functionality can be a 2- pyrimidylamino group 72 or a simple acetamide(scheme 34). 73 in the latter case, the oxidant can also be us in catalytic quantity under an atmosphere of oxygen, allow the reaction temperature to be reduc from 120° c to 60° c. 74 an interest alternative to the oxidative enamine cyclization approach involv the formation of a c- n bond rather than a c- c bond, in a process analogous to the hemetsberger reaction(section 2. 3); this transformation can be carri out with palladium catalysis on tosyl or boc- protect enamin(scheme 35A), 75, 76 or by treatment with bis(trifluoroacetoxy) iodobenzene at room temperature(scheme 35B). 77 n- aryl- 2alkylindoles can also be synthesiz in a similar mann