ir monosubstitut counterpart. a notable example is found in the smith synthesis of penitrem d, wherein a complex ortho- toluidine wa us in a dar madelung reaction that proceed smoothly to provide the pivotal heptacyclic indole. 5 nevertheless, despite some success, even the modern method, often transition- metal catalyz, that start from ortho- substitut anilin(schem 1A- 3), greatly restrict the availability of start material. a more general approach would start from a monofunctionaliz arene, follow by cyclization with c- c or c- n bond formation to an unactivat c- h bond(scheme 1B), and several classical and modern approach both fall into this category. it is the latter class of reaction that form the main subject of this perspective article. 2 indol from monosubstitut precursor 2 indol from monosubstitut precursor although the connection of two substituent to form an indole giv complete regiospecificity, it can be extremely costly in term of synthetic step requir to make the precursor. this is especially problematic when a large number of compound are scheme 3 classical rout to indol from ortho- substitut anilin.<!-- image--> requir, for example in the high- throughput synthesis of industrial compound library. in contrast, monosubstitut precursor are usually acces much more readily; however, there can be issu of regioselectivity when the ring closure can occur in two different direction to give isomeric product. this obviously do not apply when the precursor is symmetrical, or when one ortho- position is block. 2. 1 the fischer indole synthesis and modern variant 2. 1 the fischer indole synthesis and modern variant first report in 1883, the fischer reaction remain the preeminent method for the synthesis of indol(scheme 4). 6 on heat under acidic condition, an arylhydrazone tautomeriz to the enehydrazine, and undergo a[3, 3]- sigmatropic rearrangement that result in the functionalization of an scheme 4 the fischer indole synthesis.<!-- image--> scheme 5 garg' s synthesis of aspidophylline us a fischer indole approach.<!-- image--> unactivat aromatic c- h position. further tautomerization and imine exchange give the desir indole, with ammonia eliminat as a side- product. although maybe unfashionable, this celebrat reaction address all the requirement of a modern indole synthesis in it convenience and simplicity- coupl a mono- functionaliz arene with a readily available aldehyde or ketone, the only drawback be the relatively small range of arylhydrazin that are commercially available. application of the fischer indole synthesis abound in total synthesis; a recent example can be found in garg' s synthesis of aspidophylline(scheme 5). here, the intermediate indolenine 1 is prevent from aromatization by the absence of an a- proton; instead, the pendant alcohol releas by lactone methanolysis can add to the imine, giv the requir aminal 2. 7 perhap the most impressive application of the fischer reaction is in fukuyama' s synthesis of haplophytine, in which the structurally complex arylhydrazine 3 is condens with tricyclic ketone 4. heat in the presence of 4- toluenesulfonic acid gave a separable 1: 1. 6 mixture of indole 5 and indolenine 6; the latter could be convert into the final target in five step(scheme 6). 8 this example is remarkable not only for the extreme structural complexity of the substrat, but also because it giv a good yield of the desir product in spite of the well- document incompatibility of ortho- alkoxyarylhydrazin with the fischer reaction. 9 as already allud to, the primary difficulty associat with the fischer indole synthesis ha been the inaccessibility and toxicity of the arylhydrazine precursor. traditionally, these have been made by diazotization of the correspond aniline and reduction of the diazonium salt; this often capricious reaction ha a relatively poor substrate scope, and so there ha been a considerable effort to find safer and more reliable alternativ. the condition most commonly employ to convert aryldiazonium salt into hydrazin have us either elemental tin or SnCl2 in acidic media; a recently rediscover alternative is the use of ascorbic acid as a readily available and metal- free reductant. 10 the reaction proceed via a rearrangement to give an acidlabile oxalyl hydrazide which can be us directly in a fischer reaction as a surrogate for the hydrazine; this procedure ha been appli to the synthesis of eletriptan(scheme 7), and the reduction step ha also been demonstrat in flow. 11 perspective scheme 6 fukuyama' s synthesis of haplophytine us a fischer indole approach.<!-- image--> alternatively, n- substitut arylhydrazin can be prepar by reduction of the n- nitroso derivative, although the toxicity associat with nitrosamin render this far from ideal. this reduction can be effect with zinc dust in acetic acid 12 or lithium aluminium hydride; 13 sodium dithionite provid a milder alternative, 14 and ha been us on pilot plant scale in the synthesis of the 5HT2C receptor agonist 7(scheme 8). 15 hydroamination of alkyn represent another approach to the requir enehydrazine intermediat. 16 in the first report example, heat hydrazidozirconocene 8 with alkyn gave the aminozirconocene 9, presumably by hydroamination and[3, 3] sigmatropic rearrangement. 17 treatment with acid gave the indole, although the reaction is limit to symmetrical alkyn and hence indol bear the same substituent at c- 2 and c- 3(scheme 9).<!-- image--> scheme 7 reduction of aryldiazonium salt with ascorbic acid, and fischer indolization of the result arylhydrazin.<!-- image--> scheme 8 arylhydrazin from reduction of n- nitrosoanilin.<!-- image--> titanium catalyst such as 10 and 11 can perform hydroamination of 1, 1- disubstitut 18 and monosubstitut 19 hydrazin, respectively; these can be converte