nt another approach to the requir enehydrazine intermediat. 16 in the rst report example, heat hydrazidozirconocene 8 with alkyn gave the aminozirconocene 9, presumably by hydroamination and[3, 3] sigmatropic rearrangement. 17 treatment with acid gave the indole, although the reaction is limit to symmetrical alkyn and hence indol bear the same substituent at c- 2 and c- 3(scheme 9).<!-- image--> scheme 7 reduction of aryldiazonium salt with ascorbic acid, and fischer indolization of the result arylhydrazin.<!-- image--> scheme 8 arylhydrazin from reduction of n- nitrosoanilin.<!-- image--> titanium catalyst such as 10 and 11 can perform hydroamination of 1, 1- disubstitut 18 and monosubstitut 19 hydrazin, respectively; these can be convert into protect or unprotect indol by addition of ZnCl2 to the reaction mixture(scheme 10). more recently, simple zinc salt such as ZnCl2 or zn(OTf) 2 have been us stoichiometrically to effect both the regioselective hydroamination of terminal alkyn and fischer cyclization in a single step. 20 a number of new method have been report in the last decade for metal- catalyz cross coupl of aryl halid with scheme 10 titanium mediat hydrazination of alkyn.<!-- image--> scheme 11 buchwald- hartwig pd- catalyz arylation of benzophenone hydrazone in indole synthesis.<!-- image--> hydrazine derivativ. the earliest report were by buchwald et al. and hartwig, who independently report arylation of benzophenone hydrazone. 21, 22 buchwald also demonstrat that the result arylhydrazon could undergo acid- catalyz exchange with enolizable keton and subsequent fischer reaction, avoid the ne to isolate the arylhydrazine(scheme 11). 21 after extensive optimization of the catalyst, this cross coupl ha prov extremely effective on multi- kilogram scale. 23 many further catalytic arylation reaction of substitut hydrazin have been develop, several of which could in principle be appli to indole synthesis; in some cas this transformation ha also been describ. buchwald report on the copper- catalyz arylation of tert- butyl carbazate with aryl iodid, find that arylation occur exclusively on the bocprotect nitrogen in most cas(scheme 12A). 24 conversely, the use of benzhydrazide gave arylation on the unprotect nitrogen under similar condition. the copper iodide- 4hydroxyproline catalytic system ha recently been demonstrat to perform the same transformation effectively and with broad substrate scope, us aryl iodid or bromid. 25 the conversion of the product into indol with concomitant deprotection of the boc group ha been demonstrat; 26 similar chemistry utiliz benzyl carbazate ha also been shown to yield cbz- protect indol(scheme 12B), 27 while the correspond ethyl carbazat, deriv in the same manner, have been subject to tandem fischer- claisen reaction to give tricyclic indole derivativ(scheme 12C). 28 the use of protect hydrazine nucleophil ha been necessary because hydrazine itself act as a reductant in chemical science scheme 12 copper catalyz arylation of protect hydrazin in indole synthesis.<!-- image--> palladium- catalyz reaction, 29 giv simple dehalogenation rather than n- arylation. however, after an extensive catalyst screen programme, stradiotto and lundgren report recently that[pd(cinnamyl) cl] 2 and mor- DalPhos 12 provide an effective catalyst system for the hydrazination of aryl chlorid and tosylat with hydrazine hydrate. to simplify isolation, the result arylhydrazin were convert into their benzaldehyde hydrazon(scheme 13); although no exampl were report, the conversion of the hydrazon into indol can be easily envisag. 30 scheme 13 palladium- catalyz arylation of hydrazine hydrate.<!-- image--> scheme 14 indole synthesis by magnesiation(or lithiation) of halobenzen.<!-- image--> we have recently report on the synthesis of indol from aryl grignard reagent and tert- butyl azodicarboxylate, proceed via the double boc- protect arylhydrazine 13(scheme 14A). 31 the use of isopropyl- or phenyl- magnesium chloride for the metallation provid a mild method for conversion of aryl iodid and bromid into the hydrazine derivativ, with relatively broad substrate scope. on heat the protect hydrazine under acidic condition in the presence of a ketone, the boc group were remov, and hydrazone formation and fischer reaction occur in one step. this method ha been extend to the synthesis of azaindol and other heterocyclic derivativ, whilst the use of ortho- direct group can allow the direct synthesis of indol from nonhalogenat aren(scheme 14B). 32 alternative method have been report for the addition of aryl group to azodicarboxylat to give doubly protect arylhydrazin similar to 13. these include friedel- craft- type direct amination of electron rich aren, 33 and the palladium 34 or copper 35 catalyz addition of areneboronic acid to azodicarboxylat. scheme 15 the japp- klingemann variation on the fischer indole synthesis.<!-- image--> perspective scheme 16 modern variant on the japp- klingemann reaction us organozinc nucleophil.<!-- image--> the use of arylhydrazin can be obviat entirely by the japp- klingemann reaction, first report in 1887. 36 in this modification to the fischer reaction, arylhydrazon are obtain by reaction of an aryldiazonium salt with a b- ketoester under basic condition. the enolate of the ketoester attack the terminal nitrogen of the diazonium salt, and is follow by hydroxide- mediat deacylation(scheme 15). the result hydrazone can then be convert into an indole under acidic condition, as in the fischer reaction. the addition of organometallic to aryldiazonium salt provid an extension of the japp- klingemann s