chemical science chemical science PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE indole synthesis- someth old, someth new indole synthesis- someth old, someth new martyn inman and christopher j. moody indol, both naturally occur and synthetic, exhibit wide- rang biological activity. unusual and complex molecular architectur occur among their natural derivativ. as a result, this important ring system continu to attract attention from the international chemical community, and new methodology for the construction of this ever relevant heteroaromatic ring continue to be develop. unfortunately, many method frequently start from ortho- substitut anilin, thereby greatly restrict the availability of start material. a more general approach would start from a mono- functionaliz arene such as an aniline or halobenzene, follow by cyclization with c- c or c- n bond formation to an unactivat c- h bond. such method are the subject of this perspective. be divid into those in which two substituent in an ortho- relationship are connect together(scheme 1A), and those in which a single substituent is cycliz directly onto the aromatic ring(scheme 1B). 1 most approach to indole synthesis, includ many of the modern catalytic method, require an ortho- disubstitut arene precursor(scheme 1A). these reaction can be further divid into two broad class: those utiliz transition- metal catalysis fig. 1 some naturally occur indol.<!-- image--> cite this: chem. sci., 2013, 4, 29 receiv 6th august 2012 accept 5th september 2012 DOI: 10. 1039/ c2sc21185h www. rsc. org/ chemicalscience 1 introduction 1 introduction the indole ring system represent one of the most abundant and important heterocycl in nature. found in a hugely diverse array of biologically significant natural compound, from simple derivativ such as the neurotransmitter serotonin to complex alkaloid such as the clinically us anticancer agent vinblastine and mitomycin c, and the antihypertensive alkaloid reserpine(fig. 1), the importance of indol to biological chemistry cannot be overstat. additionally, a number of important synthetic drug contain an indole motif, includ sumatriptan, tadalafil, rizatriptan and fluvastatin(fig. 2), account for a total of$ 3. 2bn in sal in 2010. the continu development of rout toward indol ha been a central theme in organic synthesis over the last century, in keep with their importance. 1 however, there are still limitation on the chemical space which is easily accessible; this can be readily observ by comparison of the naturally occur indole drug with their synthetic counterpart. in particular, the substitution pattern around the six- member ring is notably less complex in synthetic indol than in naturally occur on. to our knowledge, there are no synthetic indol bear substituent at more than one of the benzenoid ring position currently in clinical use. we attribute this observation not to any perceiv pharmacological disadvantag of highly substitut indol, but rather to their relative synthetic intractability. hence, there is still room for improvement in the field of indole synthesis. with a few exception, such as those proceed through functionalization of pyrrol, 2 and method that form both ring simultaneously, 3 indole synthes almost universally involve annelation of the five- member ring to an exist benzene ring bear the appropriate functionality. these can school of chemistry, university of nottingham, university park, nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. e- mail: c. j. moody@ nottingham. ac. uk and those us more classical method. exampl of the former include the larock(scheme 2A), castro(scheme 2B), hegedus(scheme 2C), mori- ban(scheme 2D), ma(scheme 2E) and cacchi(scheme 2F) indole synthes. 1 non- catalytic method include the more classical reissert(scheme 3A), madelung(scheme 3B), leimgruber- batcho(scheme 3C) and fürstner(scheme 3D) indole synthes. 1 although the use of such bifunctional precursor allow regiospecific closure of the indole ring, it impos an additional level of constraint, complexity and synthetic inaccessibility on the requir start material, and often lead to a circuitous synthetic route overall. however, such rout remain important and valuable contribution to the field, and are extremely useful when appli judiciously, particularly when the six- member ring of the indole bear few or no substituent. an excellent example can be found in baran' s 2008 synthesis of psychotrimine, in which one of the tryptamine unit must be introduc via nucleophilic addition on nitrogen. as no preform indole derivativ perform satisfactorily, inexpensive 2- iodoaniline wa us as a surrogate, and an ensu larock synthesis then gave the requir bis- indole derivative on multi- gram scale. 4 perspective scheme 2 exampl of indole synthesis from ortho- substitut anilin mediat by transition- metal catalysis. disubstitut aren can also be us appropriately when their preparation is convenient and incur no additional cost relative to their monosubstitut counterpart. a notable example is found in the smith synthesis of penitrem d, wherein a complex ortho- toluidine wa us in a dar madelung reaction that proceed smoothly to provide the pivotal heptacyclic indole. 5 nevertheless, despite some success, even the modern method, often transition- metal catalyz, that start from ortho- substitut anilin(schem 1A- 3), greatly restrict the availability of start material. a more general approach would start from a monofunctionaliz arene, follow by cyclization with c- c or c- n bond formation to an unactivat c- h bond(scheme 1B), and several classical and modern approach both fall into this category. it is the latter class of reaction that form the main subject of this perspective article. 2 indo 2 indo